Title,Abstract,Date,id
The Expanding Scope of the Stability Gap: Unveiling its Presence in Joint Incremental Learning of Homogeneous Tasks,"Recent research identified a temporary performance drop on previously learned tasks when transitioning to a new one. This drop is called the stability gap and has great consequences for continual learning: it complicates the direct employment of continually learning since the worse-case performance at task-boundaries is dramatic, it limits its potential as an energy-efficient training paradigm, and finally, the stability drop could result in a reduced final performance of the algorithm. In this paper, we show that the stability gap also occurs when applying joint incremental training of homogeneous tasks. In this scenario, the learner continues training on the same data distribution and has access to all data from previous tasks. In addition, we show that in this scenario, there exists a low-loss linear path to the next minima, but that SGD optimization does not choose this path. We perform further analysis including a finer batch-wise analysis which could provide insights towards potential solution directions.",2024-06-07,2406.05114v1
Multiplane Prior Guided Few-Shot Aerial Scene Rendering,"Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been successfully applied in various aerial scenes, yet they face challenges with sparse views due to limited supervision. The acquisition of dense aerial views is often prohibitive, as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) may encounter constraints in perspective range and energy constraints. In this work, we introduce Multiplane Prior guided NeRF (MPNeRF), a novel approach tailored for few-shot aerial scene rendering-marking a pioneering effort in this domain. Our key insight is that the intrinsic geometric regularities specific to aerial imagery could be leveraged to enhance NeRF in sparse aerial scenes. By investigating NeRF's and Multiplane Image (MPI)'s behavior, we propose to guide the training process of NeRF with a Multiplane Prior. The proposed Multiplane Prior draws upon MPI's benefits and incorporates advanced image comprehension through a SwinV2 Transformer, pre-trained via SimMIM. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that MPNeRF outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods applied in non-aerial contexts, by tripling the performance in SSIM and LPIPS even with three views available. We hope our work offers insights into the development of NeRF-based applications in aerial scenes with limited data.",2024-06-07,2406.04961v1
MA-AVT: Modality Alignment for Parameter-Efficient Audio-Visual Transformers,"Recent advances in pre-trained vision transformers have shown promise in parameter-efficient audio-visual learning without audio pre-training. However, few studies have investigated effective methods for aligning multimodal features in parameter-efficient audio-visual transformers. In this paper, we propose MA-AVT, a new parameter-efficient audio-visual transformer employing deep modality alignment for corresponding multimodal semantic features. Specifically, we introduce joint unimodal and multimodal token learning for aligning the two modalities with a frozen modality-shared transformer. This allows the model to learn separate representations for each modality, while also attending to the cross-modal relationships between them. In addition, unlike prior work that only aligns coarse features from the output of unimodal encoders, we introduce blockwise contrastive learning to align coarse-to-fine-grain hierarchical features throughout the encoding phase. Furthermore, to suppress the background features in each modality from foreground matched audio-visual features, we introduce a robust discriminative foreground mining scheme. Through extensive experiments on benchmark AVE, VGGSound, and CREMA-D datasets, we achieve considerable performance improvements over SOTA methods.",2024-06-07,2406.04930v1
MeLFusion: Synthesizing Music from Image and Language Cues using Diffusion Models,"Music is a universal language that can communicate emotions and feelings. It forms an essential part of the whole spectrum of creative media, ranging from movies to social media posts. Machine learning models that can synthesize music are predominantly conditioned on textual descriptions of it. Inspired by how musicians compose music not just from a movie script, but also through visualizations, we propose MeLFusion, a model that can effectively use cues from a textual description and the corresponding image to synthesize music. MeLFusion is a text-to-music diffusion model with a novel ""visual synapse"", which effectively infuses the semantics from the visual modality into the generated music. To facilitate research in this area, we introduce a new dataset MeLBench, and propose a new evaluation metric IMSM. Our exhaustive experimental evaluation suggests that adding visual information to the music synthesis pipeline significantly improves the quality of generated music, measured both objectively and subjectively, with a relative gain of up to 67.98% on the FAD score. We hope that our work will gather attention to this pragmatic, yet relatively under-explored research area.",2024-06-07,2406.04673v1
M&M VTO: Multi-Garment Virtual Try-On and Editing,"We present M&M VTO, a mix and match virtual try-on method that takes as input multiple garment images, text description for garment layout and an image of a person. An example input includes: an image of a shirt, an image of a pair of pants, ""rolled sleeves, shirt tucked in"", and an image of a person. The output is a visualization of how those garments (in the desired layout) would look like on the given person. Key contributions of our method are: 1) a single stage diffusion based model, with no super resolution cascading, that allows to mix and match multiple garments at 1024x512 resolution preserving and warping intricate garment details, 2) architecture design (VTO UNet Diffusion Transformer) to disentangle denoising from person specific features, allowing for a highly effective finetuning strategy for identity preservation (6MB model per individual vs 4GB achieved with, e.g., dreambooth finetuning); solving a common identity loss problem in current virtual try-on methods, 3) layout control for multiple garments via text inputs specifically finetuned over PaLI-3 for virtual try-on task. Experimental results indicate that M&M VTO achieves state-of-the-art performance both qualitatively and quantitatively, as well as opens up new opportunities for virtual try-on via language-guided and multi-garment try-on.",2024-06-06,2406.04542v1
GLACE: Global Local Accelerated Coordinate Encoding,"Scene coordinate regression (SCR) methods are a family of visual localization methods that directly regress 2D-3D matches for camera pose estimation. They are effective in small-scale scenes but face significant challenges in large-scale scenes that are further amplified in the absence of ground truth 3D point clouds for supervision. Here, the model can only rely on reprojection constraints and needs to implicitly triangulate the points. The challenges stem from a fundamental dilemma: The network has to be invariant to observations of the same landmark at different viewpoints and lighting conditions, etc., but at the same time discriminate unrelated but similar observations. The latter becomes more relevant and severe in larger scenes. In this work, we tackle this problem by introducing the concept of co-visibility to the network. We propose GLACE, which integrates pre-trained global and local encodings and enables SCR to scale to large scenes with only a single small-sized network. Specifically, we propose a novel feature diffusion technique that implicitly groups the reprojection constraints with co-visibility and avoids overfitting to trivial solutions. Additionally, our position decoder parameterizes the output positions for large-scale scenes more effectively. Without using 3D models or depth maps for supervision, our method achieves state-of-the-art results on large-scale scenes with a low-map-size model. On Cambridge landmarks, with a single model, we achieve 17% lower median position error than Poker, the ensemble variant of the state-of-the-art SCR method ACE. Code is available at: https://github.com/cvg/glace.",2024-06-06,2406.04340v1
DIRECT-3D: Learning Direct Text-to-3D Generation on Massive Noisy 3D Data,"We present DIRECT-3D, a diffusion-based 3D generative model for creating high-quality 3D assets (represented by Neural Radiance Fields) from text prompts. Unlike recent 3D generative models that rely on clean and well-aligned 3D data, limiting them to single or few-class generation, our model is directly trained on extensive noisy and unaligned `in-the-wild' 3D assets, mitigating the key challenge (i.e., data scarcity) in large-scale 3D generation. In particular, DIRECT-3D is a tri-plane diffusion model that integrates two innovations: 1) A novel learning framework where noisy data are filtered and aligned automatically during the training process. Specifically, after an initial warm-up phase using a small set of clean data, an iterative optimization is introduced in the diffusion process to explicitly estimate the 3D pose of objects and select beneficial data based on conditional density. 2) An efficient 3D representation that is achieved by disentangling object geometry and color features with two separate conditional diffusion models that are optimized hierarchically. Given a prompt input, our model generates high-quality, high-resolution, realistic, and complex 3D objects with accurate geometric details in seconds. We achieve state-of-the-art performance in both single-class generation and text-to-3D generation. We also demonstrate that DIRECT-3D can serve as a useful 3D geometric prior of objects, for example to alleviate the well-known Janus problem in 2D-lifting methods such as DreamFusion. The code and models are available for research purposes at: https://github.com/qihao067/direct3d.",2024-06-06,2406.04322v2
Matching Anything by Segmenting Anything,"The robust association of the same objects across video frames in complex scenes is crucial for many applications, especially Multiple Object Tracking (MOT). Current methods predominantly rely on labeled domain-specific video datasets, which limits the cross-domain generalization of learned similarity embeddings. We propose MASA, a novel method for robust instance association learning, capable of matching any objects within videos across diverse domains without tracking labels. Leveraging the rich object segmentation from the Segment Anything Model (SAM), MASA learns instance-level correspondence through exhaustive data transformations. We treat the SAM outputs as dense object region proposals and learn to match those regions from a vast image collection. We further design a universal MASA adapter which can work in tandem with foundational segmentation or detection models and enable them to track any detected objects. Those combinations present strong zero-shot tracking ability in complex domains. Extensive tests on multiple challenging MOT and MOTS benchmarks indicate that the proposed method, using only unlabeled static images, achieves even better performance than state-of-the-art methods trained with fully annotated in-domain video sequences, in zero-shot association. Project Page: https://matchinganything.github.io/",2024-06-06,2406.04221v1
Improving Physics-Augmented Continuum Neural Radiance Field-Based Geometry-Agnostic System Identification with Lagrangian Particle Optimization,"Geometry-agnostic system identification is a technique for identifying the geometry and physical properties of an object from video sequences without any geometric assumptions. Recently, physics-augmented continuum neural radiance fields (PAC-NeRF) has demonstrated promising results for this technique by utilizing a hybrid Eulerian-Lagrangian representation, in which the geometry is represented by the Eulerian grid representations of NeRF, the physics is described by a material point method (MPM), and they are connected via Lagrangian particles. However, a notable limitation of PAC-NeRF is that its performance is sensitive to the learning of the geometry from the first frames owing to its two-step optimization. First, the grid representations are optimized with the first frames of video sequences, and then the physical properties are optimized through video sequences utilizing the fixed first-frame grid representations. This limitation can be critical when learning of the geometric structure is difficult, for example, in a few-shot (sparse view) setting. To overcome this limitation, we propose Lagrangian particle optimization (LPO), in which the positions and features of particles are optimized through video sequences in Lagrangian space. This method allows for the optimization of the geometric structure across the entire video sequence within the physical constraints imposed by the MPM. The experimental results demonstrate that the LPO is useful for geometric correction and physical identification in sparse-view settings.",2024-06-06,2406.04155v1
UrbanSARFloods: Sentinel-1 SLC-Based Benchmark Dataset for Urban and Open-Area Flood Mapping,"Due to its cloud-penetrating capability and independence from solar illumination, satellite Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) is the preferred data source for large-scale flood mapping, providing global coverage and including various land cover classes. However, most studies on large-scale SAR-derived flood mapping using deep learning algorithms have primarily focused on flooded open areas, utilizing available open-access datasets (e.g., Sen1Floods11) and with limited attention to urban floods. To address this gap, we introduce \textbf{UrbanSARFloods}, a floodwater dataset featuring pre-processed Sentinel-1 intensity data and interferometric coherence imagery acquired before and during flood events. It contains 8,879 $512\times 512$ chips covering 807,500 $km^2$ across 20 land cover classes and 5 continents, spanning 18 flood events. We used UrbanSARFloods to benchmark existing state-of-the-art convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for segmenting open and urban flood areas. Our findings indicate that prevalent approaches, including the Weighted Cross-Entropy (WCE) loss and the application of transfer learning with pretrained models, fall short in overcoming the obstacles posed by imbalanced data and the constraints of a small training dataset. Urban flood detection remains challenging. Future research should explore strategies for addressing imbalanced data challenges and investigate transfer learning's potential for SAR-based large-scale flood mapping. Besides, expanding this dataset to include additional flood events holds promise for enhancing its utility and contributing to advancements in flood mapping techniques.",2024-06-06,2406.04111v1
3rd Place Solution for PVUW Challenge 2024: Video Panoptic Segmentation,"Video panoptic segmentation is an advanced task that extends panoptic segmentation by applying its concept to video sequences. In the hope of addressing the challenge of video panoptic segmentation in diverse conditions, We utilize DVIS++ as our baseline model and enhance it by introducing a comprehensive approach centered on the query-wise ensemble, supplemented by additional techniques. Our proposed approach achieved a VPQ score of 57.01 on the VIPSeg test set, and ranked 3rd in the VPS track of the 3rd Pixel-level Video Understanding in the Wild Challenge.",2024-06-06,2406.04002v2
Exploring the Zero-Shot Capabilities of Vision-Language Models for Improving Gaze Following,"Contextual cues related to a person's pose and interactions with objects and other people in the scene can provide valuable information for gaze following. While existing methods have focused on dedicated cue extraction methods, in this work we investigate the zero-shot capabilities of Vision-Language Models (VLMs) for extracting a wide array of contextual cues to improve gaze following performance. We first evaluate various VLMs, prompting strategies, and in-context learning (ICL) techniques for zero-shot cue recognition performance. We then use these insights to extract contextual cues for gaze following, and investigate their impact when incorporated into a state of the art model for the task. Our analysis indicates that BLIP-2 is the overall top performing VLM and that ICL can improve performance. We also observe that VLMs are sensitive to the choice of the text prompt although ensembling over multiple text prompts can provide more robust performance. Additionally, we discover that using the entire image along with an ellipse drawn around the target person is the most effective strategy for visual prompting. For gaze following, incorporating the extracted cues results in better generalization performance, especially when considering a larger set of cues, highlighting the potential of this approach.",2024-06-06,2406.03907v1
C^2RV: Cross-Regional and Cross-View Learning for Sparse-View CBCT Reconstruction,"Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) is an important imaging technology widely used in medical scenarios, such as diagnosis and preoperative planning. Using fewer projection views to reconstruct CT, also known as sparse-view reconstruction, can reduce ionizing radiation and further benefit interventional radiology. Compared with sparse-view reconstruction for traditional parallel/fan-beam CT, CBCT reconstruction is more challenging due to the increased dimensionality caused by the measurement process based on cone-shaped X-ray beams. As a 2D-to-3D reconstruction problem, although implicit neural representations have been introduced to enable efficient training, only local features are considered and different views are processed equally in previous works, resulting in spatial inconsistency and poor performance on complicated anatomies. To this end, we propose C^2RV by leveraging explicit multi-scale volumetric representations to enable cross-regional learning in the 3D space. Additionally, the scale-view cross-attention module is introduced to adaptively aggregate multi-scale and multi-view features. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our C^2RV achieves consistent and significant improvement over previous state-of-the-art methods on datasets with diverse anatomy.",2024-06-06,2406.03902v1
Gear-NeRF: Free-Viewpoint Rendering and Tracking with Motion-aware Spatio-Temporal Sampling,"Extensions of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) to model dynamic scenes have enabled their near photo-realistic, free-viewpoint rendering. Although these methods have shown some potential in creating immersive experiences, two drawbacks limit their ubiquity: (i) a significant reduction in reconstruction quality when the computing budget is limited, and (ii) a lack of semantic understanding of the underlying scenes. To address these issues, we introduce Gear-NeRF, which leverages semantic information from powerful image segmentation models. Our approach presents a principled way for learning a spatio-temporal (4D) semantic embedding, based on which we introduce the concept of gears to allow for stratified modeling of dynamic regions of the scene based on the extent of their motion. Such differentiation allows us to adjust the spatio-temporal sampling resolution for each region in proportion to its motion scale, achieving more photo-realistic dynamic novel view synthesis. At the same time, almost for free, our approach enables free-viewpoint tracking of objects of interest - a functionality not yet achieved by existing NeRF-based methods. Empirical studies validate the effectiveness of our method, where we achieve state-of-the-art rendering and tracking performance on multiple challenging datasets.",2024-06-06,2406.03723v1
Polarization Wavefront Lidar: Learning Large Scene Reconstruction from Polarized Wavefronts,"Lidar has become a cornerstone sensing modality for 3D vision, especially for large outdoor scenarios and autonomous driving. Conventional lidar sensors are capable of providing centimeter-accurate distance information by emitting laser pulses into a scene and measuring the time-of-flight (ToF) of the reflection. However, the polarization of the received light that depends on the surface orientation and material properties is usually not considered. As such, the polarization modality has the potential to improve scene reconstruction beyond distance measurements. In this work, we introduce a novel long-range polarization wavefront lidar sensor (PolLidar) that modulates the polarization of the emitted and received light. Departing from conventional lidar sensors, PolLidar allows access to the raw time-resolved polarimetric wavefronts. We leverage polarimetric wavefronts to estimate normals, distance, and material properties in outdoor scenarios with a novel learned reconstruction method. To train and evaluate the method, we introduce a simulated and real-world long-range dataset with paired raw lidar data, ground truth distance, and normal maps. We find that the proposed method improves normal and distance reconstruction by 53\% mean angular error and 41\% mean absolute error compared to existing shape-from-polarization (SfP) and ToF methods. Code and data are open-sourced at https://light.princeton.edu/pollidar.",2024-06-05,2406.03461v1
Learning Visual Prompts for Guiding the Attention of Vision Transformers,"Visual prompting infuses visual information into the input image to adapt models toward specific predictions and tasks. Recently, manually crafted markers such as red circles are shown to guide the model to attend to a target region on the image. However, these markers only work on models trained with data containing those markers. Moreover, finding these prompts requires guesswork or prior knowledge of the domain on which the model is trained. This work circumvents manual design constraints by proposing to learn the visual prompts for guiding the attention of vision transformers. The learned visual prompt, added to any input image would redirect the attention of the pre-trained vision transformer to its spatial location on the image. Specifically, the prompt is learned in a self-supervised manner without requiring annotations and without fine-tuning the vision transformer. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed optimization-based visual prompting strategy across various pre-trained vision encoders.",2024-06-05,2406.03303v1
Situation Monitor: Diversity-Driven Zero-Shot Out-of-Distribution Detection using Budding Ensemble Architecture for Object Detection,"We introduce Situation Monitor, a novel zero-shot Out-of-Distribution (OOD) detection approach for transformer-based object detection models to enhance reliability in safety-critical machine learning applications such as autonomous driving. The Situation Monitor utilizes the Diversity-based Budding Ensemble Architecture (DBEA) and increases the OOD performance by integrating a diversity loss into the training process on top of the budding ensemble architecture, detecting Far-OOD samples and minimizing false positives on Near-OOD samples. Moreover, utilizing the resulting DBEA increases the model's OOD performance and improves the calibration of confidence scores, particularly concerning the intersection over union of the detected objects. The DBEA model achieves these advancements with a 14% reduction in trainable parameters compared to the vanilla model. This signifies a substantial improvement in efficiency without compromising the model's ability to detect OOD instances and calibrate the confidence scores accurately.",2024-06-05,2406.03188v1
DriVLMe: Enhancing LLM-based Autonomous Driving Agents with Embodied and Social Experiences,"Recent advancements in foundation models (FMs) have unlocked new prospects in autonomous driving, yet the experimental settings of these studies are preliminary, over-simplified, and fail to capture the complexity of real-world driving scenarios in human environments. It remains under-explored whether FM agents can handle long-horizon navigation tasks with free-from dialogue and deal with unexpected situations caused by environmental dynamics or task changes. To explore the capabilities and boundaries of FMs faced with the challenges above, we introduce DriVLMe, a video-language-model-based agent to facilitate natural and effective communication between humans and autonomous vehicles that perceive the environment and navigate. We develop DriVLMe from both embodied experiences in a simulated environment and social experiences from real human dialogue. While DriVLMe demonstrates competitive performance in both open-loop benchmarks and closed-loop human studies, we reveal several limitations and challenges, including unacceptable inference time, imbalanced training data, limited visual understanding, challenges with multi-turn interactions, simplified language generation from robotic experiences, and difficulties in handling on-the-fly unexpected situations like environmental dynamics and task changes.",2024-06-05,2406.03008v1
AVFF: Audio-Visual Feature Fusion for Video Deepfake Detection,"With the rapid growth in deepfake video content, we require improved and generalizable methods to detect them. Most existing detection methods either use uni-modal cues or rely on supervised training to capture the dissonance between the audio and visual modalities. While the former disregards the audio-visual correspondences entirely, the latter predominantly focuses on discerning audio-visual cues within the training corpus, thereby potentially overlooking correspondences that can help detect unseen deepfakes. We present Audio-Visual Feature Fusion (AVFF), a two-stage cross-modal learning method that explicitly captures the correspondence between the audio and visual modalities for improved deepfake detection. The first stage pursues representation learning via self-supervision on real videos to capture the intrinsic audio-visual correspondences. To extract rich cross-modal representations, we use contrastive learning and autoencoding objectives, and introduce a novel audio-visual complementary masking and feature fusion strategy. The learned representations are tuned in the second stage, where deepfake classification is pursued via supervised learning on both real and fake videos. Extensive experiments and analysis suggest that our novel representation learning paradigm is highly discriminative in nature. We report 98.6% accuracy and 99.1% AUC on the FakeAVCeleb dataset, outperforming the current audio-visual state-of-the-art by 14.9% and 9.9%, respectively.",2024-06-05,2406.02951v1
Leveraging Predicate and Triplet Learning for Scene Graph Generation,"Scene Graph Generation (SGG) aims to identify entities and predict the relationship triplets \textit{\textless subject, predicate, object\textgreater } in visual scenes. Given the prevalence of large visual variations of subject-object pairs even in the same predicate, it can be quite challenging to model and refine predicate representations directly across such pairs, which is however a common strategy adopted by most existing SGG methods. We observe that visual variations within the identical triplet are relatively small and certain relation cues are shared in the same type of triplet, which can potentially facilitate the relation learning in SGG. Moreover, for the long-tail problem widely studied in SGG task, it is also crucial to deal with the limited types and quantity of triplets in tail predicates. Accordingly, in this paper, we propose a Dual-granularity Relation Modeling (DRM) network to leverage fine-grained triplet cues besides the coarse-grained predicate ones. DRM utilizes contexts and semantics of predicate and triplet with Dual-granularity Constraints, generating compact and balanced representations from two perspectives to facilitate relation recognition. Furthermore, a Dual-granularity Knowledge Transfer (DKT) strategy is introduced to transfer variation from head predicates/triplets to tail ones, aiming to enrich the pattern diversity of tail classes to alleviate the long-tail problem. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, which establishes new state-of-the-art performance on Visual Genome, Open Image, and GQA datasets. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/jkli1998/DRM}",2024-06-04,2406.02038v1
Exploring Real World Map Change Generalization of Prior-Informed HD Map Prediction Models,"Building and maintaining High-Definition (HD) maps represents a large barrier to autonomous vehicle deployment. This, along with advances in modern online map detection models, has sparked renewed interest in the online mapping problem. However, effectively predicting online maps at a high enough quality to enable safe, driverless deployments remains a significant challenge. Recent work on these models proposes training robust online mapping systems using low quality map priors with synthetic perturbations in an attempt to simulate out-of-date HD map priors. In this paper, we investigate how models trained on these synthetically perturbed map priors generalize to performance on deployment-scale, real world map changes. We present a large-scale experimental study to determine which synthetic perturbations are most useful in generalizing to real world HD map changes, evaluated using multiple years of real-world autonomous driving data. We show there is still a substantial sim2real gap between synthetic prior perturbations and observed real-world changes, which limits the utility of current prior-informed HD map prediction models.",2024-06-04,2406.01961v2
Plug-and-Play Diffusion Distillation,"Diffusion models have shown tremendous results in image generation. However, due to the iterative nature of the diffusion process and its reliance on classifier-free guidance, inference times are slow. In this paper, we propose a new distillation approach for guided diffusion models in which an external lightweight guide model is trained while the original text-to-image model remains frozen. We show that our method reduces the inference computation of classifier-free guided latent-space diffusion models by almost half, and only requires 1\% trainable parameters of the base model. Furthermore, once trained, our guide model can be applied to various fine-tuned, domain-specific versions of the base diffusion model without the need for additional training: this ""plug-and-play"" functionality drastically improves inference computation while maintaining the visual fidelity of generated images. Empirically, we show that our approach is able to produce visually appealing results and achieve a comparable FID score to the teacher with as few as 8 to 16 steps.",2024-06-04,2406.01954v1
Contrastive Language Video Time Pre-training,"We introduce LAVITI, a novel approach to learning language, video, and temporal representations in long-form videos via contrastive learning. Different from pre-training on video-text pairs like EgoVLP, LAVITI aims to align language, video, and temporal features by extracting meaningful moments in untrimmed videos. Our model employs a set of learnable moment queries to decode clip-level visual, language, and temporal features. In addition to vision and language alignment, we introduce relative temporal embeddings (TE) to represent timestamps in videos, which enables contrastive learning of time. Significantly different from traditional approaches, the prediction of a particular timestamp is transformed by computing the similarity score between the predicted TE and all TEs. Furthermore, existing approaches for video understanding are mainly designed for short videos due to high computational complexity and memory footprint. Our method can be trained on the Ego4D dataset with only 8 NVIDIA RTX-3090 GPUs in a day. We validated our method on CharadesEgo action recognition, achieving state-of-the-art results.",2024-06-04,2406.02631v1
L-MAGIC: Language Model Assisted Generation of Images with Coherence,"In the current era of generative AI breakthroughs, generating panoramic scenes from a single input image remains a key challenge. Most existing methods use diffusion-based iterative or simultaneous multi-view inpainting. However, the lack of global scene layout priors leads to subpar outputs with duplicated objects (e.g., multiple beds in a bedroom) or requires time-consuming human text inputs for each view. We propose L-MAGIC, a novel method leveraging large language models for guidance while diffusing multiple coherent views of 360 degree panoramic scenes. L-MAGIC harnesses pre-trained diffusion and language models without fine-tuning, ensuring zero-shot performance. The output quality is further enhanced by super-resolution and multi-view fusion techniques. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the resulting panoramic scenes feature better scene layouts and perspective view rendering quality compared to related works, with >70% preference in human evaluations. Combined with conditional diffusion models, L-MAGIC can accept various input modalities, including but not limited to text, depth maps, sketches, and colored scripts. Applying depth estimation further enables 3D point cloud generation and dynamic scene exploration with fluid camera motion. Code is available at https://github.com/IntelLabs/MMPano. The video presentation is available at https://youtu.be/XDMNEzH4-Ec?list=PLG9Zyvu7iBa0-a7ccNLO8LjcVRAoMn57s.",2024-06-03,2406.01843v1
Finding Lottery Tickets in Vision Models via Data-driven Spectral Foresight Pruning,"Recent advances in neural network pruning have shown how it is possible to reduce the computational costs and memory demands of deep learning models before training. We focus on this framework and propose a new pruning at initialization algorithm that leverages the Neural Tangent Kernel (NTK) theory to align the training dynamics of the sparse network with that of the dense one. Specifically, we show how the usually neglected data-dependent component in the NTK's spectrum can be taken into account by providing an analytical upper bound to the NTK's trace obtained by decomposing neural networks into individual paths. This leads to our Path eXclusion (PX), a foresight pruning method designed to preserve the parameters that mostly influence the NTK's trace. PX is able to find lottery tickets (i.e. good paths) even at high sparsity levels and largely reduces the need for additional training. When applied to pre-trained models it extracts subnetworks directly usable for several downstream tasks, resulting in performance comparable to those of the dense counterpart but with substantial cost and computational savings. Code available at: https://github.com/iurada/px-ntk-pruning",2024-06-03,2406.01820v1
Towards Practical Single-shot Motion Synthesis,"Despite the recent advances in the so-called ""cold start"" generation from text prompts, their needs in data and computing resources, as well as the ambiguities around intellectual property and privacy concerns pose certain counterarguments for their utility. An interesting and relatively unexplored alternative has been the introduction of unconditional synthesis from a single sample, which has led to interesting generative applications. In this paper we focus on single-shot motion generation and more specifically on accelerating the training time of a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN). In particular, we tackle the challenge of GAN's equilibrium collapse when using mini-batch training by carefully annealing the weights of the loss functions that prevent mode collapse. Additionally, we perform statistical analysis in the generator and discriminator models to identify correlations between training stages and enable transfer learning. Our improved GAN achieves competitive quality and diversity on the Mixamo benchmark when compared to the original GAN architecture and a single-shot diffusion model, while being up to x6.8 faster in training time from the former and x1.75 from the latter. Finally, we demonstrate the ability of our improved GAN to mix and compose motion with a single forward pass. Project page available at https://moverseai.github.io/single-shot.",2024-06-03,2406.01136v2
Object Aware Egocentric Online Action Detection,"Advancements in egocentric video datasets like Ego4D, EPIC-Kitchens, and Ego-Exo4D have enriched the study of first-person human interactions, which is crucial for applications in augmented reality and assisted living. Despite these advancements, current Online Action Detection methods, which efficiently detect actions in streaming videos, are predominantly designed for exocentric views and thus fail to capitalize on the unique perspectives inherent to egocentric videos. To address this gap, we introduce an Object-Aware Module that integrates egocentric-specific priors into existing OAD frameworks, enhancing first-person footage interpretation. Utilizing object-specific details and temporal dynamics, our module improves scene understanding in detecting actions. Validated extensively on the Epic-Kitchens 100 dataset, our work can be seamlessly integrated into existing models with minimal overhead and bring consistent performance enhancements, marking an important step forward in adapting action detection systems to egocentric video analysis.",2024-06-03,2406.01079v1
T2LM: Long-Term 3D Human Motion Generation from Multiple Sentences,"In this paper, we address the challenging problem of long-term 3D human motion generation. Specifically, we aim to generate a long sequence of smoothly connected actions from a stream of multiple sentences (i.e., paragraph). Previous long-term motion generating approaches were mostly based on recurrent methods, using previously generated motion chunks as input for the next step. However, this approach has two drawbacks: 1) it relies on sequential datasets, which are expensive; 2) these methods yield unrealistic gaps between motions generated at each step. To address these issues, we introduce simple yet effective T2LM, a continuous long-term generation framework that can be trained without sequential data. T2LM comprises two components: a 1D-convolutional VQVAE, trained to compress motion to sequences of latent vectors, and a Transformer-based Text Encoder that predicts a latent sequence given an input text. At inference, a sequence of sentences is translated into a continuous stream of latent vectors. This is then decoded into a motion by the VQVAE decoder; the use of 1D convolutions with a local temporal receptive field avoids temporal inconsistencies between training and generated sequences. This simple constraint on the VQ-VAE allows it to be trained with short sequences only and produces smoother transitions. T2LM outperforms prior long-term generation models while overcoming the constraint of requiring sequential data; it is also competitive with SOTA single-action generation models.",2024-06-02,2406.00636v1
Semi-supervised Video Semantic Segmentation Using Unreliable Pseudo Labels for PVUW2024,"Pixel-level Scene Understanding is one of the fundamental problems in computer vision, which aims at recognizing object classes, masks and semantics of each pixel in the given image. Compared with image scene parsing, video scene parsing introduces temporal information, which can effectively improve the consistency and accuracy of prediction,because the real-world is actually video-based rather than a static state. In this paper, we adopt semi-supervised video semantic segmentation method based on unreliable pseudo labels. Then, We ensemble the teacher network model with the student network model to generate pseudo labels and retrain the student network. Our method achieves the mIoU scores of 63.71% and 67.83% on development test and final test respectively. Finally, we obtain the 1st place in the Video Scene Parsing in the Wild Challenge at CVPR 2024.",2024-06-02,2406.00587v1
FlowIE: Efficient Image Enhancement via Rectified Flow,"Image enhancement holds extensive applications in real-world scenarios due to complex environments and limitations of imaging devices. Conventional methods are often constrained by their tailored models, resulting in diminished robustness when confronted with challenging degradation conditions. In response, we propose FlowIE, a simple yet highly effective flow-based image enhancement framework that estimates straight-line paths from an elementary distribution to high-quality images. Unlike previous diffusion-based methods that suffer from long-time inference, FlowIE constructs a linear many-to-one transport mapping via conditioned rectified flow. The rectification straightens the trajectories of probability transfer, accelerating inference by an order of magnitude. This design enables our FlowIE to fully exploit rich knowledge in the pre-trained diffusion model, rendering it well-suited for various real-world applications. Moreover, we devise a faster inference algorithm, inspired by Lagrange's Mean Value Theorem, harnessing midpoint tangent direction to optimize path estimation, ultimately yielding visually superior results. Thanks to these designs, our FlowIE adeptly manages a diverse range of enhancement tasks within a concise sequence of fewer than 5 steps. Our contributions are rigorously validated through comprehensive experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets, unveiling the compelling efficacy and efficiency of our proposed FlowIE. Code is available at https://github.com/EternalEvan/FlowIE.",2024-06-01,2406.00508v1
2nd Place Solution for PVUW Challenge 2024: Video Panoptic Segmentation,"Video Panoptic Segmentation (VPS) is a challenging task that is extends from image panoptic segmentation.VPS aims to simultaneously classify, track, segment all objects in a video, including both things and stuff. Due to its wide application in many downstream tasks such as video understanding, video editing, and autonomous driving. In order to deal with the task of video panoptic segmentation in the wild, we propose a robust integrated video panoptic segmentation solution. We use DVIS++ framework as our baseline to generate the initial masks. Then,we add an additional image semantic segmentation model to further improve the performance of semantic classes.Finally, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance with a VPQ score of 56.36 and 57.12 in the development and test phases, respectively, and ultimately ranked 2nd in the VPS track of the PVUW Challenge at CVPR2024.",2024-06-01,2406.00500v1
You Only Need Less Attention at Each Stage in Vision Transformers,"The advent of Vision Transformers (ViTs) marks a substantial paradigm shift in the realm of computer vision. ViTs capture the global information of images through self-attention modules, which perform dot product computations among patchified image tokens. While self-attention modules empower ViTs to capture long-range dependencies, the computational complexity grows quadratically with the number of tokens, which is a major hindrance to the practical application of ViTs. Moreover, the self-attention mechanism in deep ViTs is also susceptible to the attention saturation issue. Accordingly, we argue against the necessity of computing the attention scores in every layer, and we propose the Less-Attention Vision Transformer (LaViT), which computes only a few attention operations at each stage and calculates the subsequent feature alignments in other layers via attention transformations that leverage the previously calculated attention scores. This novel approach can mitigate two primary issues plaguing traditional self-attention modules: the heavy computational burden and attention saturation. Our proposed architecture offers superior efficiency and ease of implementation, merely requiring matrix multiplications that are highly optimized in contemporary deep learning frameworks. Moreover, our architecture demonstrates exceptional performance across various vision tasks including classification, detection and segmentation.",2024-06-01,2406.00427v1
SNED: Superposition Network Architecture Search for Efficient Video Diffusion Model,"While AI-generated content has garnered significant attention, achieving photo-realistic video synthesis remains a formidable challenge. Despite the promising advances in diffusion models for video generation quality, the complex model architecture and substantial computational demands for both training and inference create a significant gap between these models and real-world applications. This paper presents SNED, a superposition network architecture search method for efficient video diffusion model. Our method employs a supernet training paradigm that targets various model cost and resolution options using a weight-sharing method. Moreover, we propose the supernet training sampling warm-up for fast training optimization. To showcase the flexibility of our method, we conduct experiments involving both pixel-space and latent-space video diffusion models. The results demonstrate that our framework consistently produces comparable results across different model options with high efficiency. According to the experiment for the pixel-space video diffusion model, we can achieve consistent video generation results simultaneously across 64 x 64 to 256 x 256 resolutions with a large range of model sizes from 640M to 1.6B number of parameters for pixel-space video diffusion models.",2024-05-31,2406.00195v1
Rethinking Open-World Semi-Supervised Learning: Distribution Mismatch and Inductive Inference,"Open-world semi-supervised learning (OWSSL) extends conventional semi-supervised learning to open-world scenarios by taking account of novel categories in unlabeled datasets. Despite the recent advancements in OWSSL, the success often relies on the assumptions that 1) labeled and unlabeled datasets share the same balanced class prior distribution, which does not generally hold in real-world applications, and 2) unlabeled training datasets are utilized for evaluation, where such transductive inference might not adequately address challenges in the wild. In this paper, we aim to generalize OWSSL by addressing them. Our work suggests that practical OWSSL may require different training settings, evaluation methods, and learning strategies compared to those prevalent in the existing literature.",2024-05-31,2405.20829v1
Extreme Point Supervised Instance Segmentation,"This paper introduces a novel approach to learning instance segmentation using extreme points, i.e., the topmost, leftmost, bottommost, and rightmost points, of each object. These points are readily available in the modern bounding box annotation process while offering strong clues for precise segmentation, and thus allows to improve performance at the same annotation cost with box-supervised methods. Our work considers extreme points as a part of the true instance mask and propagates them to identify potential foreground and background points, which are all together used for training a pseudo label generator. Then pseudo labels given by the generator are in turn used for supervised learning of our final model. On three public benchmarks, our method significantly outperforms existing box-supervised methods, further narrowing the gap with its fully supervised counterpart. In particular, our model generates high-quality masks when a target object is separated into multiple parts, where previous box-supervised methods often fail.",2024-05-31,2405.20729v2
Is Synthetic Data all We Need? Benchmarking the Robustness of Models Trained with Synthetic Images,"A long-standing challenge in developing machine learning approaches has been the lack of high-quality labeled data. Recently, models trained with purely synthetic data, here termed synthetic clones, generated using large-scale pre-trained diffusion models have shown promising results in overcoming this annotation bottleneck. As these synthetic clone models progress, they are likely to be deployed in challenging real-world settings, yet their suitability remains understudied. Our work addresses this gap by providing the first benchmark for three classes of synthetic clone models, namely supervised, self-supervised, and multi-modal ones, across a range of robustness measures. We show that existing synthetic self-supervised and multi-modal clones are comparable to or outperform state-of-the-art real-image baselines for a range of robustness metrics - shape bias, background bias, calibration, etc. However, we also find that synthetic clones are much more susceptible to adversarial and real-world noise than models trained with real data. To address this, we find that combining both real and synthetic data further increases the robustness, and that the choice of prompt used for generating synthetic images plays an important part in the robustness of synthetic clones.",2024-05-30,2405.20469v1
LLMGeo: Benchmarking Large Language Models on Image Geolocation In-the-wild,"Image geolocation is a critical task in various image-understanding applications. However, existing methods often fail when analyzing challenging, in-the-wild images. Inspired by the exceptional background knowledge of multimodal language models, we systematically evaluate their geolocation capabilities using a novel image dataset and a comprehensive evaluation framework. We first collect images from various countries via Google Street View. Then, we conduct training-free and training-based evaluations on closed-source and open-source multi-modal language models. we conduct both training-free and training-based evaluations on closed-source and open-source multimodal language models. Our findings indicate that closed-source models demonstrate superior geolocation abilities, while open-source models can achieve comparable performance through fine-tuning.",2024-05-30,2405.20363v1
Don't drop your samples! Coherence-aware training benefits Conditional diffusion,"Conditional diffusion models are powerful generative models that can leverage various types of conditional information, such as class labels, segmentation masks, or text captions. However, in many real-world scenarios, conditional information may be noisy or unreliable due to human annotation errors or weak alignment. In this paper, we propose the Coherence-Aware Diffusion (CAD), a novel method that integrates coherence in conditional information into diffusion models, allowing them to learn from noisy annotations without discarding data. We assume that each data point has an associated coherence score that reflects the quality of the conditional information. We then condition the diffusion model on both the conditional information and the coherence score. In this way, the model learns to ignore or discount the conditioning when the coherence is low. We show that CAD is theoretically sound and empirically effective on various conditional generation tasks. Moreover, we show that leveraging coherence generates realistic and diverse samples that respect conditional information better than models trained on cleaned datasets where samples with low coherence have been discarded.",2024-05-30,2405.20324v1
Can't make an Omelette without Breaking some Eggs: Plausible Action Anticipation using Large Video-Language Models,"We introduce PlausiVL, a large video-language model for anticipating action sequences that are plausible in the real-world. While significant efforts have been made towards anticipating future actions, prior approaches do not take into account the aspect of plausibility in an action sequence. To address this limitation, we explore the generative capability of a large video-language model in our work and further, develop the understanding of plausibility in an action sequence by introducing two objective functions, a counterfactual-based plausible action sequence learning loss and a long-horizon action repetition loss. We utilize temporal logical constraints as well as verb-noun action pair logical constraints to create implausible/counterfactual action sequences and use them to train the model with plausible action sequence learning loss. This loss helps the model to differentiate between plausible and not plausible action sequences and also helps the model to learn implicit temporal cues crucial for the task of action anticipation. The long-horizon action repetition loss puts a higher penalty on the actions that are more prone to repetition over a longer temporal window. With this penalization, the model is able to generate diverse, plausible action sequences. We evaluate our approach on two large-scale datasets, Ego4D and EPIC-Kitchens-100, and show improvements on the task of action anticipation.",2024-05-30,2405.20305v1
Open-Set Domain Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation,"Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) for semantic segmentation aims to transfer the pixel-wise knowledge from the labeled source domain to the unlabeled target domain. However, current UDA methods typically assume a shared label space between source and target, limiting their applicability in real-world scenarios where novel categories may emerge in the target domain. In this paper, we introduce Open-Set Domain Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation (OSDA-SS) for the first time, where the target domain includes unknown classes. We identify two major problems in the OSDA-SS scenario as follows: 1) the existing UDA methods struggle to predict the exact boundary of the unknown classes, and 2) they fail to accurately predict the shape of the unknown classes. To address these issues, we propose Boundary and Unknown Shape-Aware open-set domain adaptation, coined BUS. Our BUS can accurately discern the boundaries between known and unknown classes in a contrastive manner using a novel dilation-erosion-based contrastive loss. In addition, we propose OpenReMix, a new domain mixing augmentation method that guides our model to effectively learn domain and size-invariant features for improving the shape detection of the known and unknown classes. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our proposed BUS effectively detects unknown classes in the challenging OSDA-SS scenario compared to the previous methods by a large margin. The code is available at https://github.com/KHU-AGI/BUS.",2024-05-30,2405.19899v1
Puff-Net: Efficient Style Transfer with Pure Content and Style Feature Fusion Network,"Style transfer aims to render an image with the artistic features of a style image, while maintaining the original structure. Various methods have been put forward for this task, but some challenges still exist. For instance, it is difficult for CNN-based methods to handle global information and long-range dependencies between input images, for which transformer-based methods have been proposed. Although transformers can better model the relationship between content and style images, they require high-cost hardware and time-consuming inference. To address these issues, we design a novel transformer model that includes only the encoder, thus significantly reducing the computational cost. In addition, we also find that existing style transfer methods may lead to images under-stylied or missing content. In order to achieve better stylization, we design a content feature extractor and a style feature extractor, based on which pure content and style images can be fed to the transformer. Finally, we propose a novel network termed Puff-Net, i.e., pure content and style feature fusion network. Through qualitative and quantitative experiments, we demonstrate the advantages of our model compared to state-of-the-art ones in the literature.",2024-05-30,2405.19775v1
Stratified Avatar Generation from Sparse Observations,"Estimating 3D full-body avatars from AR/VR devices is essential for creating immersive experiences in AR/VR applications. This task is challenging due to the limited input from Head Mounted Devices, which capture only sparse observations from the head and hands. Predicting the full-body avatars, particularly the lower body, from these sparse observations presents significant difficulties. In this paper, we are inspired by the inherent property of the kinematic tree defined in the Skinned Multi-Person Linear (SMPL) model, where the upper body and lower body share only one common ancestor node, bringing the potential of decoupled reconstruction. We propose a stratified approach to decouple the conventional full-body avatar reconstruction pipeline into two stages, with the reconstruction of the upper body first and a subsequent reconstruction of the lower body conditioned on the previous stage. To implement this straightforward idea, we leverage the latent diffusion model as a powerful probabilistic generator, and train it to follow the latent distribution of decoupled motions explored by a VQ-VAE encoder-decoder model. Extensive experiments on AMASS mocap dataset demonstrate our state-of-the-art performance in the reconstruction of full-body motions.",2024-05-30,2405.20786v2
LED: A Large-scale Real-world Paired Dataset for Event Camera Denoising,"Event camera has significant advantages in capturing dynamic scene information while being prone to noise interference, particularly in challenging conditions like low threshold and low illumination. However, most existing research focuses on gentle situations, hindering event camera applications in realistic complex scenarios. To tackle this limitation and advance the field, we construct a new paired real-world event denoising dataset (LED), including 3K sequences with 18K seconds of high-resolution (1200*680) event streams and showing three notable distinctions compared to others: diverse noise levels and scenes, larger-scale with high-resolution, and high-quality GT. Specifically, it contains stepped parameters and varying illumination with diverse scenarios. Moreover, based on the property of noise events inconsistency and signal events consistency, we propose a novel effective denoising framework(DED) using homogeneous dual events to generate the GT with better separating noise from the raw. Furthermore, we design a bio-inspired baseline leveraging Leaky-Integrate-and-Fire (LIF) neurons with dynamic thresholds to realize accurate denoising. The experimental results demonstrate that the remarkable performance of the proposed approach on different datasets.The dataset and code are at https://github.com/Yee-Sing/led.",2024-05-30,2405.19718v1
FaceLift: Semi-supervised 3D Facial Landmark Localization,"3D facial landmark localization has proven to be of particular use for applications, such as face tracking, 3D face modeling, and image-based 3D face reconstruction. In the supervised learning case, such methods usually rely on 3D landmark datasets derived from 3DMM-based registration that often lack spatial definition alignment, as compared with that chosen by hand-labeled human consensus, e.g., how are eyebrow landmarks defined? This creates a gap between landmark datasets generated via high-quality 2D human labels and 3DMMs, and it ultimately limits their effectiveness. To address this issue, we introduce a novel semi-supervised learning approach that learns 3D landmarks by directly lifting (visible) hand-labeled 2D landmarks and ensures better definition alignment, without the need for 3D landmark datasets. To lift 2D landmarks to 3D, we leverage 3D-aware GANs for better multi-view consistency learning and in-the-wild multi-frame videos for robust cross-generalization. Empirical experiments demonstrate that our method not only achieves better definition alignment between 2D-3D landmarks but also outperforms other supervised learning 3D landmark localization methods on both 3DMM labeled and photogrammetric ground truth evaluation datasets. Project Page: https://davidcferman.github.io/FaceLift",2024-05-30,2405.19646v1
Programmable Motion Generation for Open-Set Motion Control Tasks,"Character animation in real-world scenarios necessitates a variety of constraints, such as trajectories, key-frames, interactions, etc. Existing methodologies typically treat single or a finite set of these constraint(s) as separate control tasks. They are often specialized, and the tasks they address are rarely extendable or customizable. We categorize these as solutions to the close-set motion control problem. In response to the complexity of practical motion control, we propose and attempt to solve the open-set motion control problem. This problem is characterized by an open and fully customizable set of motion control tasks. To address this, we introduce a new paradigm, programmable motion generation. In this paradigm, any given motion control task is broken down into a combination of atomic constraints. These constraints are then programmed into an error function that quantifies the degree to which a motion sequence adheres to them. We utilize a pre-trained motion generation model and optimize its latent code to minimize the error function of the generated motion. Consequently, the generated motion not only inherits the prior of the generative model but also satisfies the required constraints. Experiments show that we can generate high-quality motions when addressing a wide range of unseen tasks. These tasks encompass motion control by motion dynamics, geometric constraints, physical laws, interactions with scenes, objects or the character own body parts, etc. All of these are achieved in a unified approach, without the need for ad-hoc paired training data collection or specialized network designs. During the programming of novel tasks, we observed the emergence of new skills beyond those of the prior model. With the assistance of large language models, we also achieved automatic programming. We hope that this work will pave the way for the motion control of general AI agents.",2024-05-29,2405.19283v1
Resurrecting Old Classes with New Data for Exemplar-Free Continual Learning,"Continual learning methods are known to suffer from catastrophic forgetting, a phenomenon that is particularly hard to counter for methods that do not store exemplars of previous tasks. Therefore, to reduce potential drift in the feature extractor, existing exemplar-free methods are typically evaluated in settings where the first task is significantly larger than subsequent tasks. Their performance drops drastically in more challenging settings starting with a smaller first task. To address this problem of feature drift estimation for exemplar-free methods, we propose to adversarially perturb the current samples such that their embeddings are close to the old class prototypes in the old model embedding space. We then estimate the drift in the embedding space from the old to the new model using the perturbed images and compensate the prototypes accordingly. We exploit the fact that adversarial samples are transferable from the old to the new feature space in a continual learning setting. The generation of these images is simple and computationally cheap. We demonstrate in our experiments that the proposed approach better tracks the movement of prototypes in embedding space and outperforms existing methods on several standard continual learning benchmarks as well as on fine-grained datasets. Code is available at https://github.com/dipamgoswami/ADC.",2024-05-29,2405.19074v1
Supervised Contrastive Learning for Snapshot Spectral Imaging Face Anti-Spoofing,"This study reveals a cutting-edge re-balanced contrastive learning strategy aimed at strengthening face anti-spoofing capabilities within facial recognition systems, with a focus on countering the challenges posed by printed photos, and highly realistic silicone or latex masks. Leveraging the HySpeFAS dataset, which benefits from Snapshot Spectral Imaging technology to provide hyperspectral images, our approach harmonizes class-level contrastive learning with data resampling and an innovative real-face oriented reweighting technique. This method effectively mitigates dataset imbalances and reduces identity-related biases. Notably, our strategy achieved an unprecedented 0.0000\% Average Classification Error Rate (ACER) on the HySpeFAS dataset, ranking first at the Chalearn Snapshot Spectral Imaging Face Anti-spoofing Challenge on CVPR 2024.",2024-05-29,2405.18853v1
Evaluating Zero-Shot GPT-4V Performance on 3D Visual Question Answering Benchmarks,"As interest in ""reformulating"" the 3D Visual Question Answering (VQA) problem in the context of foundation models grows, it is imperative to assess how these new paradigms influence existing closed-vocabulary datasets. In this case study, we evaluate the zero-shot performance of foundational models (GPT-4 Vision and GPT-4) on well-established 3D VQA benchmarks, namely 3D-VQA and ScanQA. We provide an investigation to contextualize the performance of GPT-based agents relative to traditional modeling approaches. We find that GPT-based agents without any fine-tuning perform on par with the closed vocabulary approaches. Our findings corroborate recent results that ""blind"" models establish a surprisingly strong baseline in closed-vocabulary settings. We demonstrate that agents benefit significantly from scene-specific vocabulary via in-context textual grounding. By presenting a preliminary comparison with previous baselines, we hope to inform the community's ongoing efforts to refine multi-modal 3D benchmarks.",2024-05-29,2405.18831v1
NeRF On-the-go: Exploiting Uncertainty for Distractor-free NeRFs in the Wild,"Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have shown remarkable success in synthesizing photorealistic views from multi-view images of static scenes, but face challenges in dynamic, real-world environments with distractors like moving objects, shadows, and lighting changes. Existing methods manage controlled environments and low occlusion ratios but fall short in render quality, especially under high occlusion scenarios. In this paper, we introduce NeRF On-the-go, a simple yet effective approach that enables the robust synthesis of novel views in complex, in-the-wild scenes from only casually captured image sequences. Delving into uncertainty, our method not only efficiently eliminates distractors, even when they are predominant in captures, but also achieves a notably faster convergence speed. Through comprehensive experiments on various scenes, our method demonstrates a significant improvement over state-of-the-art techniques. This advancement opens new avenues for NeRF in diverse and dynamic real-world applications.",2024-05-29,2405.18715v2
FocSAM: Delving Deeply into Focused Objects in Segmenting Anything,"The Segment Anything Model (SAM) marks a notable milestone in segmentation models, highlighted by its robust zero-shot capabilities and ability to handle diverse prompts. SAM follows a pipeline that separates interactive segmentation into image preprocessing through a large encoder and interactive inference via a lightweight decoder, ensuring efficient real-time performance. However, SAM faces stability issues in challenging samples upon this pipeline. These issues arise from two main factors. Firstly, the image preprocessing disables SAM from dynamically using image-level zoom-in strategies to refocus on the target object during interaction. Secondly, the lightweight decoder struggles to sufficiently integrate interactive information with image embeddings. To address these two limitations, we propose FocSAM with a pipeline redesigned on two pivotal aspects. First, we propose Dynamic Window Multi-head Self-Attention (Dwin-MSA) to dynamically refocus SAM's image embeddings on the target object. Dwin-MSA localizes attention computations around the target object, enhancing object-related embeddings with minimal computational overhead. Second, we propose Pixel-wise Dynamic ReLU (P-DyReLU) to enable sufficient integration of interactive information from a few initial clicks that have significant impacts on the overall segmentation results. Experimentally, FocSAM augments SAM's interactive segmentation performance to match the existing state-of-the-art method in segmentation quality, requiring only about 5.6% of this method's inference time on CPUs.",2024-05-29,2405.18706v1
SCE-MAE: Selective Correspondence Enhancement with Masked Autoencoder for Self-Supervised Landmark Estimation,"Self-supervised landmark estimation is a challenging task that demands the formation of locally distinct feature representations to identify sparse facial landmarks in the absence of annotated data. To tackle this task, existing state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods (1) extract coarse features from backbones that are trained with instance-level self-supervised learning (SSL) paradigms, which neglect the dense prediction nature of the task, (2) aggregate them into memory-intensive hypercolumn formations, and (3) supervise lightweight projector networks to naively establish full local correspondences among all pairs of spatial features. In this paper, we introduce SCE-MAE, a framework that (1) leverages the MAE, a region-level SSL method that naturally better suits the landmark prediction task, (2) operates on the vanilla feature map instead of on expensive hypercolumns, and (3) employs a Correspondence Approximation and Refinement Block (CARB) that utilizes a simple density peak clustering algorithm and our proposed Locality-Constrained Repellence Loss to directly hone only select local correspondences. We demonstrate through extensive experiments that SCE-MAE is highly effective and robust, outperforming existing SOTA methods by large margins of approximately 20%-44% on the landmark matching and approximately 9%-15% on the landmark detection tasks.",2024-05-28,2405.18322v1
MULi-Ev: Maintaining Unperturbed LiDAR-Event Calibration,"Despite the increasing interest in enhancing perception systems for autonomous vehicles, the online calibration between event cameras and LiDAR - two sensors pivotal in capturing comprehensive environmental information - remains unexplored. We introduce MULi-Ev, the first online, deep learning-based framework tailored for the extrinsic calibration of event cameras with LiDAR. This advancement is instrumental for the seamless integration of LiDAR and event cameras, enabling dynamic, real-time calibration adjustments that are essential for maintaining optimal sensor alignment amidst varying operational conditions. Rigorously evaluated against the real-world scenarios presented in the DSEC dataset, MULi-Ev not only achieves substantial improvements in calibration accuracy but also sets a new standard for integrating LiDAR with event cameras in mobile platforms. Our findings reveal the potential of MULi-Ev to bolster the safety, reliability, and overall performance of event-based perception systems in autonomous driving, marking a significant step forward in their real-world deployment and effectiveness.",2024-05-28,2405.18021v1
PTM-VQA: Efficient Video Quality Assessment Leveraging Diverse PreTrained Models from the Wild,"Video quality assessment (VQA) is a challenging problem due to the numerous factors that can affect the perceptual quality of a video, \eg, content attractiveness, distortion type, motion pattern, and level. However, annotating the Mean opinion score (MOS) for videos is expensive and time-consuming, which limits the scale of VQA datasets, and poses a significant obstacle for deep learning-based methods. In this paper, we propose a VQA method named PTM-VQA, which leverages PreTrained Models to transfer knowledge from models pretrained on various pre-tasks, enabling benefits for VQA from different aspects.   Specifically, we extract features of videos from different pretrained models with frozen weights and integrate them to generate representation. Since these models possess various fields of knowledge and are often trained with labels irrelevant to quality, we propose an Intra-Consistency and Inter-Divisibility (ICID) loss to impose constraints on features extracted by multiple pretrained models. The intra-consistency constraint ensures that features extracted by different pretrained models are in the same unified quality-aware latent space, while the inter-divisibility introduces pseudo clusters based on the annotation of samples and tries to separate features of samples from different clusters. Furthermore, with a constantly growing number of pretrained models, it is crucial to determine which models to use and how to use them. To address this problem, we propose an efficient scheme to select suitable candidates. Models with better clustering performance on VQA datasets are chosen to be our candidates. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.",2024-05-28,2405.17765v1
OED: Towards One-stage End-to-End Dynamic Scene Graph Generation,"Dynamic Scene Graph Generation (DSGG) focuses on identifying visual relationships within the spatial-temporal domain of videos. Conventional approaches often employ multi-stage pipelines, which typically consist of object detection, temporal association, and multi-relation classification. However, these methods exhibit inherent limitations due to the separation of multiple stages, and independent optimization of these sub-problems may yield sub-optimal solutions. To remedy these limitations, we propose a one-stage end-to-end framework, termed OED, which streamlines the DSGG pipeline. This framework reformulates the task as a set prediction problem and leverages pair-wise features to represent each subject-object pair within the scene graph. Moreover, another challenge of DSGG is capturing temporal dependencies, we introduce a Progressively Refined Module (PRM) for aggregating temporal context without the constraints of additional trackers or handcrafted trajectories, enabling end-to-end optimization of the network. Extensive experiments conducted on the Action Genome benchmark demonstrate the effectiveness of our design. The code and models are available at \url{https://github.com/guanw-pku/OED}.",2024-05-27,2405.16925v1
PP-SAM: Perturbed Prompts for Robust Adaptation of Segment Anything Model for Polyp Segmentation,"The Segment Anything Model (SAM), originally designed for general-purpose segmentation tasks, has been used recently for polyp segmentation. Nonetheless, fine-tuning SAM with data from new imaging centers or clinics poses significant challenges. This is because this necessitates the creation of an expensive and time-intensive annotated dataset, along with the potential for variability in user prompts during inference. To address these issues, we propose a robust fine-tuning technique, PP-SAM, that allows SAM to adapt to the polyp segmentation task with limited images. To this end, we utilize variable perturbed bounding box prompts (BBP) to enrich the learning context and enhance the model's robustness to BBP perturbations during inference. Rigorous experiments on polyp segmentation benchmarks reveal that our variable BBP perturbation significantly improves model resilience. Notably, on Kvasir, 1-shot fine-tuning boosts the DICE score by 20% and 37% with 50 and 100-pixel BBP perturbations during inference, respectively. Moreover, our experiments show that 1-shot, 5-shot, and 10-shot PP-SAM with 50-pixel perturbations during inference outperform a recent state-of-the-art (SOTA) polyp segmentation method by 26%, 7%, and 5% DICE scores, respectively. Our results motivate the broader applicability of our PP-SAM for other medical imaging tasks with limited samples. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/SLDGroup/PP-SAM.",2024-05-27,2405.16740v1
The devil is in discretization discrepancy. Robustifying Differentiable NAS with Single-Stage Searching Protocol,"Neural Architecture Search (NAS) has been widely adopted to design neural networks for various computer vision tasks. One of its most promising subdomains is differentiable NAS (DNAS), where the optimal architecture is found in a differentiable manner. However, gradient-based methods suffer from the discretization error, which can severely damage the process of obtaining the final architecture. In our work, we first study the risk of discretization error and show how it affects an unregularized supernet. Then, we present that penalizing high entropy, a common technique of architecture regularization, can hinder the supernet's performance. Therefore, to robustify the DNAS framework, we introduce a novel single-stage searching protocol, which is not reliant on decoding a continuous architecture. Our results demonstrate that this approach outperforms other DNAS methods by achieving 75.3% in the searching stage on the Cityscapes validation dataset and attains performance 1.1% higher than the optimal network of DCNAS on the non-dense search space comprising short connections. The entire training process takes only 5.5 GPU days due to the weight reuse, and yields a computationally efficient architecture. Additionally, we propose a new dataset split procedure, which substantially improves results and prevents architecture degeneration in DARTS.",2024-05-26,2405.16610v1
"Multi-Modal UAV Detection, Classification and Tracking Algorithm -- Technical Report for CVPR 2024 UG2 Challenge","This technical report presents the 1st winning model for UG2+, a task in CVPR 2024 UAV Tracking and Pose-Estimation Challenge. This challenge faces difficulties in drone detection,   UAV-type classification and 2D/3D trajectory estimation in extreme weather conditions with multi-modal sensor information, including stereo vision, various Lidars, Radars, and audio arrays. Leveraging this information, we propose a multi-modal UAV detection, classification, and 3D tracking method for accurate UAV classification and tracking. A novel classification pipeline which incorporates sequence fusion, region of interest (ROI) cropping, and keyframe selection is proposed. Our system integrates cutting-edge classification techniques and sophisticated post-processing steps to boost accuracy and robustness. The designed pose estimation pipeline incorporates three modules: dynamic points analysis, a multi-object tracker, and trajectory completion techniques. Extensive experiments have validated the effectiveness and precision of our approach. In addition, we also propose a novel dataset pre-processing method and conduct a comprehensive ablation study for our design. We finally achieved the best performance in the classification and tracking of the MMUAD dataset. The code and configuration of our method are available at https://github.com/dtc111111/Multi-Modal-UAV.",2024-05-26,2405.16464v1
"LEAST: ""Local"" text-conditioned image style transfer","Text-conditioned style transfer enables users to communicate their desired artistic styles through text descriptions, offering a new and expressive means of achieving stylization. In this work, we evaluate the text-conditioned image editing and style transfer techniques on their fine-grained understanding of user prompts for precise ""local"" style transfer. We find that current methods fail to accomplish localized style transfers effectively, either failing to localize style transfer to certain regions in the image, or distorting the content and structure of the input image. To this end, we carefully design an end-to-end pipeline that guarantees local style transfer according to users' intent. Further, we substantiate the effectiveness of our approach through quantitative and qualitative analysis. The project code is available at: https://github.com/silky1708/local-style-transfer.",2024-05-25,2405.16330v1
Grounding Stylistic Domain Generalization with Quantitative Domain Shift Measures and Synthetic Scene Images,"Domain Generalization (DG) is a challenging task in machine learning that requires a coherent ability to comprehend shifts across various domains through extraction of domain-invariant features. DG performance is typically evaluated by performing image classification in domains of various image styles. However, current methodology lacks quantitative understanding about shifts in stylistic domain, and relies on a vast amount of pre-training data, such as ImageNet1K, which are predominantly in photo-realistic style with weakly supervised class labels. Such a data-driven practice could potentially result in spurious correlation and inflated performance on DG benchmarks. In this paper, we introduce a new DG paradigm to address these risks. We first introduce two new quantitative measures ICV and IDD to describe domain shifts in terms of consistency of classes within one domain and similarity between two stylistic domains. We then present SuperMarioDomains (SMD), a novel synthetic multi-domain dataset sampled from video game scenes with more consistent classes and sufficient dissimilarity compared to ImageNet1K. We demonstrate our DG method SMOS. SMOS first uses SMD to train a precursor model, which is then used to ground the training on a DG benchmark. We observe that SMOS contributes to state-of-the-art performance across five DG benchmarks, gaining large improvements to performances on abstract domains along with on-par or slight improvements to those on photo-realistic domains. Our qualitative analysis suggests that these improvements can be attributed to reduced distributional divergence between originally distant domains. Our data are available at https://github.com/fpsluozi/SMD-SMOS .",2024-05-24,2405.15961v1
Unbiased Faster R-CNN for Single-source Domain Generalized Object Detection,"Single-source domain generalization (SDG) for object detection is a challenging yet essential task as the distribution bias of the unseen domain degrades the algorithm performance significantly. However, existing methods attempt to extract domain-invariant features, neglecting that the biased data leads the network to learn biased features that are non-causal and poorly generalizable. To this end, we propose an Unbiased Faster R-CNN (UFR) for generalizable feature learning. Specifically, we formulate SDG in object detection from a causal perspective and construct a Structural Causal Model (SCM) to analyze the data bias and feature bias in the task, which are caused by scene confounders and object attribute confounders. Based on the SCM, we design a Global-Local Transformation module for data augmentation, which effectively simulates domain diversity and mitigates the data bias. Additionally, we introduce a Causal Attention Learning module that incorporates a designed attention invariance loss to learn image-level features that are robust to scene confounders. Moreover, we develop a Causal Prototype Learning module with an explicit instance constraint and an implicit prototype constraint, which further alleviates the negative impact of object attribute confounders. Experimental results on five scenes demonstrate the prominent generalization ability of our method, with an improvement of 3.9% mAP on the Night-Clear scene.",2024-05-24,2405.15225v1
A Lost Opportunity for Vision-Language Models: A Comparative Study of Online Test-time Adaptation for Vision-Language Models,"In the realm of deep learning, maintaining model robustness against distribution shifts is critical. This paper investigates test-time adaptation strategies for vision-language models, with a specific focus on CLIP and its variants. Through a systematic exploration of prompt-based techniques and existing test-time adaptation methods, the study aims to enhance the adaptability and robustness of vision-language models in diverse real-world scenarios. The investigation includes an analysis of prompt engineering strategies, such as hand-crafted prompts, prompt ensembles, and prompt learning techniques. We introduce a vision-text-space ensemble that significantly boosts the average performance compared to a text-space-only ensemble. Additionally, our comparative study delves into leveraging existing test-time adaptation methods originally designed for image classification tasks. Experimental evaluations conducted across various datasets and model architectures demonstrate the efficacy of different adaptation strategies. We further give insights into the importance of updating the vision encoder and whether it is beneficial to update the text encoder. Code is available at https://github.com/mariodoebler/test-time-adaptation",2024-05-23,2405.14977v1
Federated Online Adaptation for Deep Stereo,"We introduce a novel approach for adapting deep stereo networks in a collaborative manner. By building over principles of federated learning, we develop a distributed framework allowing for demanding the optimization process to a number of clients deployed in different environments. This makes it possible, for a deep stereo network running on resourced-constrained devices, to capitalize on the adaptation process carried out by other instances of the same architecture, and thus improve its accuracy in challenging environments even when it cannot carry out adaptation on its own. Experimental results show how federated adaptation performs equivalently to on-device adaptation, and even better when dealing with challenging environments.",2024-05-23,2405.14873v1
Synergistic Global-space Camera and Human Reconstruction from Videos,"Remarkable strides have been made in reconstructing static scenes or human bodies from monocular videos. Yet, the two problems have largely been approached independently, without much synergy. Most visual SLAM methods can only reconstruct camera trajectories and scene structures up to scale, while most HMR methods reconstruct human meshes in metric scale but fall short in reasoning with cameras and scenes. This work introduces Synergistic Camera and Human Reconstruction (SynCHMR) to marry the best of both worlds. Specifically, we design Human-aware Metric SLAM to reconstruct metric-scale camera poses and scene point clouds using camera-frame HMR as a strong prior, addressing depth, scale, and dynamic ambiguities. Conditioning on the dense scene recovered, we further learn a Scene-aware SMPL Denoiser to enhance world-frame HMR by incorporating spatio-temporal coherency and dynamic scene constraints. Together, they lead to consistent reconstructions of camera trajectories, human meshes, and dense scene point clouds in a common world frame. Project page: https://paulchhuang.github.io/synchmr",2024-05-23,2405.14855v1
Neural Directional Encoding for Efficient and Accurate View-Dependent Appearance Modeling,"Novel-view synthesis of specular objects like shiny metals or glossy paints remains a significant challenge. Not only the glossy appearance but also global illumination effects, including reflections of other objects in the environment, are critical components to faithfully reproduce a scene. In this paper, we present Neural Directional Encoding (NDE), a view-dependent appearance encoding of neural radiance fields (NeRF) for rendering specular objects. NDE transfers the concept of feature-grid-based spatial encoding to the angular domain, significantly improving the ability to model high-frequency angular signals. In contrast to previous methods that use encoding functions with only angular input, we additionally cone-trace spatial features to obtain a spatially varying directional encoding, which addresses the challenging interreflection effects. Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real datasets show that a NeRF model with NDE (1) outperforms the state of the art on view synthesis of specular objects, and (2) works with small networks to allow fast (real-time) inference. The project webpage and source code are available at: \url{https://lwwu2.github.io/nde/}.",2024-05-23,2405.14847v1
Efficient Multitask Dense Predictor via Binarization,"Multi-task learning for dense prediction has emerged as a pivotal area in computer vision, enabling simultaneous processing of diverse yet interrelated pixel-wise prediction tasks. However, the substantial computational demands of state-of-the-art (SoTA) models often limit their widespread deployment. This paper addresses this challenge by introducing network binarization to compress resource-intensive multi-task dense predictors. Specifically, our goal is to significantly accelerate multi-task dense prediction models via Binary Neural Networks (BNNs) while maintaining and even improving model performance at the same time. To reach this goal, we propose a Binary Multi-task Dense Predictor, Bi-MTDP, and several variants of Bi-MTDP, in which a multi-task dense predictor is constructed via specified binarized modules. Our systematical analysis of this predictor reveals that performance drop from binarization is primarily caused by severe information degradation. To address this issue, we introduce a deep information bottleneck layer that enforces representations for downstream tasks satisfying Gaussian distribution in forward propagation. Moreover, we introduce a knowledge distillation mechanism to correct the direction of information flow in backward propagation. Intriguingly, one variant of Bi-MTDP outperforms full-precision (FP) multi-task dense prediction SoTAs, ARTC (CNN-based) and InvPT (ViT-Based). This result indicates that Bi-MTDP is not merely a naive trade-off between performance and efficiency, but is rather a benefit of the redundant information flow thanks to the multi-task architecture. Code is available at https://github.com/42Shawn/BiMTDP.",2024-05-23,2405.14136v1
Learning to Transform Dynamically for Better Adversarial Transferability,"Adversarial examples, crafted by adding perturbations imperceptible to humans, can deceive neural networks. Recent studies identify the adversarial transferability across various models, \textit{i.e.}, the cross-model attack ability of adversarial samples. To enhance such adversarial transferability, existing input transformation-based methods diversify input data with transformation augmentation. However, their effectiveness is limited by the finite number of available transformations. In our study, we introduce a novel approach named Learning to Transform (L2T). L2T increases the diversity of transformed images by selecting the optimal combination of operations from a pool of candidates, consequently improving adversarial transferability. We conceptualize the selection of optimal transformation combinations as a trajectory optimization problem and employ a reinforcement learning strategy to effectively solve the problem. Comprehensive experiments on the ImageNet dataset, as well as practical tests with Google Vision and GPT-4V, reveal that L2T surpasses current methodologies in enhancing adversarial transferability, thereby confirming its effectiveness and practical significance. The code is available at https://github.com/RongyiZhu/L2T.",2024-05-23,2405.14077v1
Text Prompting for Multi-Concept Video Customization by Autoregressive Generation,"We present a method for multi-concept customization of pretrained text-to-video (T2V) models. Intuitively, the multi-concept customized video can be derived from the (non-linear) intersection of the video manifolds of the individual concepts, which is not straightforward to find. We hypothesize that sequential and controlled walking towards the intersection of the video manifolds, directed by text prompting, leads to the solution. To do so, we generate the various concepts and their corresponding interactions, sequentially, in an autoregressive manner. Our method can generate videos of multiple custom concepts (subjects, action and background) such as a teddy bear running towards a brown teapot, a dog playing violin and a teddy bear swimming in the ocean. We quantitatively evaluate our method using videoCLIP and DINO scores, in addition to human evaluation. Videos for results presented in this paper can be found at https://github.com/divyakraman/MultiConceptVideo2024.",2024-05-22,2405.13951v1
ST-Gait++: Leveraging spatio-temporal convolutions for gait-based emotion recognition on videos,"Emotion recognition is relevant for human behaviour understanding, where facial expression and speech recognition have been widely explored by the computer vision community. Literature in the field of behavioural psychology indicates that gait, described as the way a person walks, is an additional indicator of emotions. In this work, we propose a deep framework for emotion recognition through the analysis of gait. More specifically, our model is composed of a sequence of spatial-temporal Graph Convolutional Networks that produce a robust skeleton-based representation for the task of emotion classification. We evaluate our proposed framework on the E-Gait dataset, composed of a total of 2177 samples. The results obtained represent an improvement of approximately 5% in accuracy compared to the state of the art. In addition, during training we observed a faster convergence of our model compared to the state-of-the-art methodologies.",2024-05-22,2405.13903v1
Addressing the Elephant in the Room: Robust Animal Re-Identification with Unsupervised Part-Based Feature Alignment,"Animal Re-ID is crucial for wildlife conservation, yet it faces unique challenges compared to person Re-ID. First, the scarcity and lack of diversity in datasets lead to background-biased models. Second, animal Re-ID depends on subtle, species-specific cues, further complicated by variations in pose, background, and lighting. This study addresses background biases by proposing a method to systematically remove backgrounds in both training and evaluation phases. And unlike prior works that depend on pose annotations, our approach utilizes an unsupervised technique for feature alignment across body parts and pose variations, enhancing practicality. Our method achieves superior results on three key animal Re-ID datasets: ATRW, YakReID-103, and ELPephants.",2024-05-22,2405.13781v1
KPConvX: Modernizing Kernel Point Convolution with Kernel Attention,"In the field of deep point cloud understanding, KPConv is a unique architecture that uses kernel points to locate convolutional weights in space, instead of relying on Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) encodings. While it initially achieved success, it has since been surpassed by recent MLP networks that employ updated designs and training strategies. Building upon the kernel point principle, we present two novel designs: KPConvD (depthwise KPConv), a lighter design that enables the use of deeper architectures, and KPConvX, an innovative design that scales the depthwise convolutional weights of KPConvD with kernel attention values. Using KPConvX with a modern architecture and training strategy, we are able to outperform current state-of-the-art approaches on the ScanObjectNN, Scannetv2, and S3DIS datasets. We validate our design choices through ablation studies and release our code and models.",2024-05-21,2405.13194v1
OmniGlue: Generalizable Feature Matching with Foundation Model Guidance,"The image matching field has been witnessing a continuous emergence of novel learnable feature matching techniques, with ever-improving performance on conventional benchmarks. However, our investigation shows that despite these gains, their potential for real-world applications is restricted by their limited generalization capabilities to novel image domains. In this paper, we introduce OmniGlue, the first learnable image matcher that is designed with generalization as a core principle. OmniGlue leverages broad knowledge from a vision foundation model to guide the feature matching process, boosting generalization to domains not seen at training time. Additionally, we propose a novel keypoint position-guided attention mechanism which disentangles spatial and appearance information, leading to enhanced matching descriptors. We perform comprehensive experiments on a suite of $7$ datasets with varied image domains, including scene-level, object-centric and aerial images. OmniGlue's novel components lead to relative gains on unseen domains of $20.9\%$ with respect to a directly comparable reference model, while also outperforming the recent LightGlue method by $9.5\%$ relatively.Code and model can be found at https://hwjiang1510.github.io/OmniGlue",2024-05-21,2405.12979v1
Personalized Residuals for Concept-Driven Text-to-Image Generation,"We present personalized residuals and localized attention-guided sampling for efficient concept-driven generation using text-to-image diffusion models. Our method first represents concepts by freezing the weights of a pretrained text-conditioned diffusion model and learning low-rank residuals for a small subset of the model's layers. The residual-based approach then directly enables application of our proposed sampling technique, which applies the learned residuals only in areas where the concept is localized via cross-attention and applies the original diffusion weights in all other regions. Localized sampling therefore combines the learned identity of the concept with the existing generative prior of the underlying diffusion model. We show that personalized residuals effectively capture the identity of a concept in ~3 minutes on a single GPU without the use of regularization images and with fewer parameters than previous models, and localized sampling allows using the original model as strong prior for large parts of the image.",2024-05-21,2405.12978v1
Nearest is Not Dearest: Towards Practical Defense against Quantization-conditioned Backdoor Attacks,"Model quantization is widely used to compress and accelerate deep neural networks. However, recent studies have revealed the feasibility of weaponizing model quantization via implanting quantization-conditioned backdoors (QCBs). These special backdoors stay dormant on released full-precision models but will come into effect after standard quantization. Due to the peculiarity of QCBs, existing defenses have minor effects on reducing their threats or are even infeasible. In this paper, we conduct the first in-depth analysis of QCBs. We reveal that the activation of existing QCBs primarily stems from the nearest rounding operation and is closely related to the norms of neuron-wise truncation errors (i.e., the difference between the continuous full-precision weights and its quantized version). Motivated by these insights, we propose Error-guided Flipped Rounding with Activation Preservation (EFRAP), an effective and practical defense against QCBs. Specifically, EFRAP learns a non-nearest rounding strategy with neuron-wise error norm and layer-wise activation preservation guidance, flipping the rounding strategies of neurons crucial for backdoor effects but with minimal impact on clean accuracy. Extensive evaluations on benchmark datasets demonstrate that our EFRAP can defeat state-of-the-art QCB attacks under various settings. Code is available at https://github.com/AntigoneRandy/QuantBackdoor_EFRAP.",2024-05-21,2405.12725v1
CustomText: Customized Textual Image Generation using Diffusion Models,"Textual image generation spans diverse fields like advertising, education, product packaging, social media, information visualization, and branding. Despite recent strides in language-guided image synthesis using diffusion models, current models excel in image generation but struggle with accurate text rendering and offer limited control over font attributes. In this paper, we aim to enhance the synthesis of high-quality images with precise text customization, thereby contributing to the advancement of image generation models. We call our proposed method CustomText. Our implementation leverages a pre-trained TextDiffuser model to enable control over font color, background, and types. Additionally, to address the challenge of accurately rendering small-sized fonts, we train the ControlNet model for a consistency decoder, significantly enhancing text-generation performance. We assess the performance of CustomText in comparison to previous methods of textual image generation on the publicly available CTW-1500 dataset and a self-curated dataset for small-text generation, showcasing superior results.",2024-05-21,2405.12531v1
DTLLM-VLT: Diverse Text Generation for Visual Language Tracking Based on LLM,"Visual Language Tracking (VLT) enhances single object tracking (SOT) by integrating natural language descriptions from a video, for the precise tracking of a specified object. By leveraging high-level semantic information, VLT guides object tracking, alleviating the constraints associated with relying on a visual modality. Nevertheless, most VLT benchmarks are annotated in a single granularity and lack a coherent semantic framework to provide scientific guidance. Moreover, coordinating human annotators for high-quality annotations is laborious and time-consuming. To address these challenges, we introduce DTLLM-VLT, which automatically generates extensive and multi-granularity text to enhance environmental diversity. (1) DTLLM-VLT generates scientific and multi-granularity text descriptions using a cohesive prompt framework. Its succinct and highly adaptable design allows seamless integration into various visual tracking benchmarks. (2) We select three prominent benchmarks to deploy our approach: short-term tracking, long-term tracking, and global instance tracking. We offer four granularity combinations for these benchmarks, considering the extent and density of semantic information, thereby showcasing the practicality and versatility of DTLLM-VLT. (3) We conduct comparative experiments on VLT benchmarks with different text granularities, evaluating and analyzing the impact of diverse text on tracking performance. Conclusionally, this work leverages LLM to provide multi-granularity semantic information for VLT task from efficient and diverse perspectives, enabling fine-grained evaluation of multi-modal trackers. In the future, we believe this work can be extended to more datasets to support vision datasets understanding.",2024-05-20,2405.12139v1
Diff-BGM: A Diffusion Model for Video Background Music Generation,"When editing a video, a piece of attractive background music is indispensable. However, video background music generation tasks face several challenges, for example, the lack of suitable training datasets, and the difficulties in flexibly controlling the music generation process and sequentially aligning the video and music. In this work, we first propose a high-quality music-video dataset BGM909 with detailed annotation and shot detection to provide multi-modal information about the video and music. We then present evaluation metrics to assess music quality, including music diversity and alignment between music and video with retrieval precision metrics. Finally, we propose the Diff-BGM framework to automatically generate the background music for a given video, which uses different signals to control different aspects of the music during the generation process, i.e., uses dynamic video features to control music rhythm and semantic features to control the melody and atmosphere. We propose to align the video and music sequentially by introducing a segment-aware cross-attention layer. Experiments verify the effectiveness of our proposed method. The code and models are available at https://github.com/sizhelee/Diff-BGM.",2024-05-20,2405.11913v1
CSTA: CNN-based Spatiotemporal Attention for Video Summarization,"Video summarization aims to generate a concise representation of a video, capturing its essential content and key moments while reducing its overall length. Although several methods employ attention mechanisms to handle long-term dependencies, they often fail to capture the visual significance inherent in frames. To address this limitation, we propose a CNN-based SpatioTemporal Attention (CSTA) method that stacks each feature of frames from a single video to form image-like frame representations and applies 2D CNN to these frame features. Our methodology relies on CNN to comprehend the inter and intra-frame relations and to find crucial attributes in videos by exploiting its ability to learn absolute positions within images. In contrast to previous work compromising efficiency by designing additional modules to focus on spatial importance, CSTA requires minimal computational overhead as it uses CNN as a sliding window. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets (SumMe and TVSum) demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art performance with fewer MACs compared to previous methods. Codes are available at https://github.com/thswodnjs3/CSTA.",2024-05-20,2405.11905v2
Depth Prompting for Sensor-Agnostic Depth Estimation,"Dense depth maps have been used as a key element of visual perception tasks. There have been tremendous efforts to enhance the depth quality, ranging from optimization-based to learning-based methods. Despite the remarkable progress for a long time, their applicability in the real world is limited due to systematic measurement biases such as density, sensing pattern, and scan range. It is well-known that the biases make it difficult for these methods to achieve their generalization. We observe that learning a joint representation for input modalities (e.g., images and depth), which most recent methods adopt, is sensitive to the biases. In this work, we disentangle those modalities to mitigate the biases with prompt engineering. For this, we design a novel depth prompt module to allow the desirable feature representation according to new depth distributions from either sensor types or scene configurations. Our depth prompt can be embedded into foundation models for monocular depth estimation. Through this embedding process, our method helps the pretrained model to be free from restraint of depth scan range and to provide absolute scale depth maps. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method through extensive evaluations. Source code is publicly available at https://github.com/JinhwiPark/DepthPrompting .",2024-05-20,2405.11867v1
Morphological Prototyping for Unsupervised Slide Representation Learning in Computational Pathology,"Representation learning of pathology whole-slide images (WSIs) has been has primarily relied on weak supervision with Multiple Instance Learning (MIL). However, the slide representations resulting from this approach are highly tailored to specific clinical tasks, which limits their expressivity and generalization, particularly in scenarios with limited data. Instead, we hypothesize that morphological redundancy in tissue can be leveraged to build a task-agnostic slide representation in an unsupervised fashion. To this end, we introduce PANTHER, a prototype-based approach rooted in the Gaussian mixture model that summarizes the set of WSI patches into a much smaller set of morphological prototypes. Specifically, each patch is assumed to have been generated from a mixture distribution, where each mixture component represents a morphological exemplar. Utilizing the estimated mixture parameters, we then construct a compact slide representation that can be readily used for a wide range of downstream tasks. By performing an extensive evaluation of PANTHER on subtyping and survival tasks using 13 datasets, we show that 1) PANTHER outperforms or is on par with supervised MIL baselines and 2) the analysis of morphological prototypes brings new qualitative and quantitative insights into model interpretability.",2024-05-19,2405.11643v1
Transcriptomics-guided Slide Representation Learning in Computational Pathology,"Self-supervised learning (SSL) has been successful in building patch embeddings of small histology images (e.g., 224x224 pixels), but scaling these models to learn slide embeddings from the entirety of giga-pixel whole-slide images (WSIs) remains challenging. Here, we leverage complementary information from gene expression profiles to guide slide representation learning using multimodal pre-training. Expression profiles constitute highly detailed molecular descriptions of a tissue that we hypothesize offer a strong task-agnostic training signal for learning slide embeddings. Our slide and expression (S+E) pre-training strategy, called Tangle, employs modality-specific encoders, the outputs of which are aligned via contrastive learning. Tangle was pre-trained on samples from three different organs: liver (n=6,597 S+E pairs), breast (n=1,020), and lung (n=1,012) from two different species (Homo sapiens and Rattus norvegicus). Across three independent test datasets consisting of 1,265 breast WSIs, 1,946 lung WSIs, and 4,584 liver WSIs, Tangle shows significantly better few-shot performance compared to supervised and SSL baselines. When assessed using prototype-based classification and slide retrieval, Tangle also shows a substantial performance improvement over all baselines. Code available at https://github.com/mahmoodlab/TANGLE.",2024-05-19,2405.11618v1
"""Previously on ..."" From Recaps to Story Summarization","We introduce multimodal story summarization by leveraging TV episode recaps - short video sequences interweaving key story moments from previous episodes to bring viewers up to speed. We propose PlotSnap, a dataset featuring two crime thriller TV shows with rich recaps and long episodes of 40 minutes. Story summarization labels are unlocked by matching recap shots to corresponding sub-stories in the episode. We propose a hierarchical model TaleSumm that processes entire episodes by creating compact shot and dialog representations, and predicts importance scores for each video shot and dialog utterance by enabling interactions between local story groups. Unlike traditional summarization, our method extracts multiple plot points from long videos. We present a thorough evaluation on story summarization, including promising cross-series generalization. TaleSumm also shows good results on classic video summarization benchmarks.",2024-05-19,2405.11487v1
MICap: A Unified Model for Identity-aware Movie Descriptions,"Characters are an important aspect of any storyline and identifying and including them in descriptions is necessary for story understanding. While previous work has largely ignored identity and generated captions with someone (anonymized names), recent work formulates id-aware captioning as a fill-in-the-blanks (FITB) task, where, given a caption with blanks, the goal is to predict person id labels. However, to predict captions with ids, a two-stage approach is required: first predict captions with someone, then fill in identities. In this work, we present a new single stage approach that can seamlessly switch between id-aware caption generation or FITB when given a caption with blanks. Our model, Movie-Identity Captioner (MICap), uses a shared auto-regressive decoder that benefits from training with FITB and full-caption generation objectives, while the encoder can benefit from or disregard captions with blanks as input. Another challenge with id-aware captioning is the lack of a metric to capture subtle differences between person ids. To this end, we introduce iSPICE, a caption evaluation metric that focuses on identity tuples created through intermediate scene graphs. We evaluate MICap on Large-Scale Movie Description Challenge (LSMDC), where we show a 4.2% improvement in FITB accuracy, and a 1-2% bump in classic captioning metrics.",2024-05-19,2405.11483v1
Unsupervised Image Prior via Prompt Learning and CLIP Semantic Guidance for Low-Light Image Enhancement,"Currently, low-light conditions present a significant challenge for machine cognition. In this paper, rather than optimizing models by assuming that human and machine cognition are correlated, we use zero-reference low-light enhancement to improve the performance of downstream task models. We propose to improve the zero-reference low-light enhancement method by leveraging the rich visual-linguistic CLIP prior without any need for paired or unpaired normal-light data, which is laborious and difficult to collect. We propose a simple but effective strategy to learn prompts that help guide the enhancement method and experimentally show that the prompts learned without any need for normal-light data improve image contrast, reduce over-enhancement, and reduce noise over-amplification. Next, we propose to reuse the CLIP model for semantic guidance via zero-shot open vocabulary classification to optimize low-light enhancement for task-based performance rather than human visual perception. We conduct extensive experimental results showing that the proposed method leads to consistent improvements across various datasets regarding task-based performance and compare our method against state-of-the-art methods, showing favorable results across various low-light datasets.",2024-05-19,2405.11478v1
TriLoRA: Integrating SVD for Advanced Style Personalization in Text-to-Image Generation,"As deep learning technology continues to advance, image generation models, especially models like Stable Diffusion, are finding increasingly widespread application in visual arts creation. However, these models often face challenges such as overfitting, lack of stability in generated results, and difficulties in accurately capturing the features desired by creators during the fine-tuning process. In response to these challenges, we propose an innovative method that integrates Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) into the Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) parameter update strategy, aimed at enhancing the fine-tuning efficiency and output quality of image generation models. By incorporating SVD within the LoRA framework, our method not only effectively reduces the risk of overfitting but also enhances the stability of model outputs, and captures subtle, creator-desired feature adjustments more accurately. We evaluated our method on multiple datasets, and the results show that, compared to traditional fine-tuning methods, our approach significantly improves the model's generalization ability and creative flexibility while maintaining the quality of generation. Moreover, this method maintains LoRA's excellent performance under resource-constrained conditions, allowing for significant improvements in image generation quality without sacrificing the original efficiency and resource advantages.",2024-05-18,2405.11236v1
ART3D: 3D Gaussian Splatting for Text-Guided Artistic Scenes Generation,"In this paper, we explore the existing challenges in 3D artistic scene generation by introducing ART3D, a novel framework that combines diffusion models and 3D Gaussian splatting techniques. Our method effectively bridges the gap between artistic and realistic images through an innovative image semantic transfer algorithm. By leveraging depth information and an initial artistic image, we generate a point cloud map, addressing domain differences. Additionally, we propose a depth consistency module to enhance 3D scene consistency. Finally, the 3D scene serves as initial points for optimizing Gaussian splats. Experimental results demonstrate ART3D's superior performance in both content and structural consistency metrics when compared to existing methods. ART3D significantly advances the field of AI in art creation by providing an innovative solution for generating high-quality 3D artistic scenes.",2024-05-17,2405.10508v1
FFF: Fixing Flawed Foundations in contrastive pre-training results in very strong Vision-Language models,"Despite noise and caption quality having been acknowledged as important factors impacting vision-language contrastive pre-training, in this paper, we show that the full potential of improving the training process by addressing such issues is yet to be realized. Specifically, we firstly study and analyze two issues affecting training: incorrect assignment of negative pairs, and low caption quality and diversity. Then, we devise effective solutions for addressing both problems, which essentially require training with multiple true positive pairs. Finally, we propose training with sigmoid loss to address such a requirement. We show very large gains over the current state-of-the-art for both image recognition ($\sim +6\%$ on average over 11 datasets) and image retrieval ($\sim +19\%$ on Flickr30k and $\sim +15\%$ on MSCOCO).",2024-05-16,2405.10286v1
Faces that Speak: Jointly Synthesising Talking Face and Speech from Text,"The goal of this work is to simultaneously generate natural talking faces and speech outputs from text. We achieve this by integrating Talking Face Generation (TFG) and Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems into a unified framework. We address the main challenges of each task: (1) generating a range of head poses representative of real-world scenarios, and (2) ensuring voice consistency despite variations in facial motion for the same identity. To tackle these issues, we introduce a motion sampler based on conditional flow matching, which is capable of high-quality motion code generation in an efficient way. Moreover, we introduce a novel conditioning method for the TTS system, which utilises motion-removed features from the TFG model to yield uniform speech outputs. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that our method effectively creates natural-looking talking faces and speech that accurately match the input text. To our knowledge, this is the first effort to build a multimodal synthesis system that can generalise to unseen identities.",2024-05-16,2405.10272v1
DiverGen: Improving Instance Segmentation by Learning Wider Data Distribution with More Diverse Generative Data,"Instance segmentation is data-hungry, and as model capacity increases, data scale becomes crucial for improving the accuracy. Most instance segmentation datasets today require costly manual annotation, limiting their data scale. Models trained on such data are prone to overfitting on the training set, especially for those rare categories. While recent works have delved into exploiting generative models to create synthetic datasets for data augmentation, these approaches do not efficiently harness the full potential of generative models.   To address these issues, we introduce a more efficient strategy to construct generative datasets for data augmentation, termed DiverGen. Firstly, we provide an explanation of the role of generative data from the perspective of distribution discrepancy. We investigate the impact of different data on the distribution learned by the model. We argue that generative data can expand the data distribution that the model can learn, thus mitigating overfitting. Additionally, we find that the diversity of generative data is crucial for improving model performance and enhance it through various strategies, including category diversity, prompt diversity, and generative model diversity. With these strategies, we can scale the data to millions while maintaining the trend of model performance improvement. On the LVIS dataset, DiverGen significantly outperforms the strong model X-Paste, achieving +1.1 box AP and +1.1 mask AP across all categories, and +1.9 box AP and +2.5 mask AP for rare categories.",2024-05-16,2405.10185v1
SHiNe: Semantic Hierarchy Nexus for Open-vocabulary Object Detection,"Open-vocabulary object detection (OvOD) has transformed detection into a language-guided task, empowering users to freely define their class vocabularies of interest during inference. However, our initial investigation indicates that existing OvOD detectors exhibit significant variability when dealing with vocabularies across various semantic granularities, posing a concern for real-world deployment. To this end, we introduce Semantic Hierarchy Nexus (SHiNe), a novel classifier that uses semantic knowledge from class hierarchies. It runs offline in three steps: i) it retrieves relevant super-/sub-categories from a hierarchy for each target class; ii) it integrates these categories into hierarchy-aware sentences; iii) it fuses these sentence embeddings to generate the nexus classifier vector. Our evaluation on various detection benchmarks demonstrates that SHiNe enhances robustness across diverse vocabulary granularities, achieving up to +31.9% mAP50 with ground truth hierarchies, while retaining improvements using hierarchies generated by large language models. Moreover, when applied to open-vocabulary classification on ImageNet-1k, SHiNe improves the CLIP zero-shot baseline by +2.8% accuracy. SHiNe is training-free and can be seamlessly integrated with any off-the-shelf OvOD detector, without incurring additional computational overhead during inference. The code is open source.",2024-05-16,2405.10053v1
Driving-Video Dehazing with Non-Aligned Regularization for Safety Assistance,"Real driving-video dehazing poses a significant challenge due to the inherent difficulty in acquiring precisely aligned hazy/clear video pairs for effective model training, especially in dynamic driving scenarios with unpredictable weather conditions. In this paper, we propose a pioneering approach that addresses this challenge through a nonaligned regularization strategy. Our core concept involves identifying clear frames that closely match hazy frames, serving as references to supervise a video dehazing network. Our approach comprises two key components: reference matching and video dehazing. Firstly, we introduce a non-aligned reference frame matching module, leveraging an adaptive sliding window to match high-quality reference frames from clear videos. Video dehazing incorporates flow-guided cosine attention sampler and deformable cosine attention fusion modules to enhance spatial multiframe alignment and fuse their improved information. To validate our approach, we collect a GoProHazy dataset captured effortlessly with GoPro cameras in diverse rural and urban road environments. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method over current state-of-the-art methods in the challenging task of real driving-video dehazing. Project page.",2024-05-16,2405.09996v1
Infrared Adversarial Car Stickers,"Infrared physical adversarial examples are of great significance for studying the security of infrared AI systems that are widely used in our lives such as autonomous driving. Previous infrared physical attacks mainly focused on 2D infrared pedestrian detection which may not fully manifest its destructiveness to AI systems. In this work, we propose a physical attack method against infrared detectors based on 3D modeling, which is applied to a real car. The goal is to design a set of infrared adversarial stickers to make cars invisible to infrared detectors at various viewing angles, distances, and scenes. We build a 3D infrared car model with real infrared characteristics and propose an infrared adversarial pattern generation method based on 3D mesh shadow. We propose a 3D control points-based mesh smoothing algorithm and use a set of smoothness loss functions to enhance the smoothness of adversarial meshes and facilitate the sticker implementation. Besides, We designed the aluminum stickers and conducted physical experiments on two real Mercedes-Benz A200L cars. Our adversarial stickers hid the cars from Faster RCNN, an object detector, at various viewing angles, distances, and scenes. The attack success rate (ASR) was 91.49% for real cars. In comparison, the ASRs of random stickers and no sticker were only 6.21% and 0.66%, respectively. In addition, the ASRs of the designed stickers against six unseen object detectors such as YOLOv3 and Deformable DETR were between 73.35%-95.80%, showing good transferability of the attack performance across detectors.",2024-05-16,2405.09924v1
Generative Unlearning for Any Identity,"Recent advances in generative models trained on large-scale datasets have made it possible to synthesize high-quality samples across various domains. Moreover, the emergence of strong inversion networks enables not only a reconstruction of real-world images but also the modification of attributes through various editing methods. However, in certain domains related to privacy issues, e.g., human faces, advanced generative models along with strong inversion methods can lead to potential misuses. In this paper, we propose an essential yet under-explored task called generative identity unlearning, which steers the model not to generate an image of a specific identity. In the generative identity unlearning, we target the following objectives: (i) preventing the generation of images with a certain identity, and (ii) preserving the overall quality of the generative model. To satisfy these goals, we propose a novel framework, Generative Unlearning for Any Identity (GUIDE), which prevents the reconstruction of a specific identity by unlearning the generator with only a single image. GUIDE consists of two parts: (i) finding a target point for optimization that un-identifies the source latent code and (ii) novel loss functions that facilitate the unlearning procedure while less affecting the learned distribution. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance in the generative machine unlearning task. The code is available at https://github.com/KHU-AGI/GUIDE.",2024-05-16,2405.09879v1
SOK-Bench: A Situated Video Reasoning Benchmark with Aligned Open-World Knowledge,"Learning commonsense reasoning from visual contexts and scenes in real-world is a crucial step toward advanced artificial intelligence. However, existing video reasoning benchmarks are still inadequate since they were mainly designed for factual or situated reasoning and rarely involve broader knowledge in the real world. Our work aims to delve deeper into reasoning evaluations, specifically within dynamic, open-world, and structured context knowledge. We propose a new benchmark (SOK-Bench), consisting of 44K questions and 10K situations with instance-level annotations depicted in the videos. The reasoning process is required to understand and apply situated knowledge and general knowledge for problem-solving. To create such a dataset, we propose an automatic and scalable generation method to generate question-answer pairs, knowledge graphs, and rationales by instructing the combinations of LLMs and MLLMs. Concretely, we first extract observable situated entities, relations, and processes from videos for situated knowledge and then extend to open-world knowledge beyond the visible content. The task generation is facilitated through multiple dialogues as iterations and subsequently corrected and refined by our designed self-promptings and demonstrations. With a corpus of both explicit situated facts and implicit commonsense, we generate associated question-answer pairs and reasoning processes, finally followed by manual reviews for quality assurance. We evaluated recent mainstream large vision-language models on the benchmark and found several insightful conclusions. For more information, please refer to our benchmark at www.bobbywu.com/SOKBench.",2024-05-15,2405.09713v2
BEHAVIOR Vision Suite: Customizable Dataset Generation via Simulation,"The systematic evaluation and understanding of computer vision models under varying conditions require large amounts of data with comprehensive and customized labels, which real-world vision datasets rarely satisfy. While current synthetic data generators offer a promising alternative, particularly for embodied AI tasks, they often fall short for computer vision tasks due to low asset and rendering quality, limited diversity, and unrealistic physical properties. We introduce the BEHAVIOR Vision Suite (BVS), a set of tools and assets to generate fully customized synthetic data for systematic evaluation of computer vision models, based on the newly developed embodied AI benchmark, BEHAVIOR-1K. BVS supports a large number of adjustable parameters at the scene level (e.g., lighting, object placement), the object level (e.g., joint configuration, attributes such as ""filled"" and ""folded""), and the camera level (e.g., field of view, focal length). Researchers can arbitrarily vary these parameters during data generation to perform controlled experiments. We showcase three example application scenarios: systematically evaluating the robustness of models across different continuous axes of domain shift, evaluating scene understanding models on the same set of images, and training and evaluating simulation-to-real transfer for a novel vision task: unary and binary state prediction. Project website: https://behavior-vision-suite.github.io/",2024-05-15,2405.09546v1
ADA-Track: End-to-End Multi-Camera 3D Multi-Object Tracking with Alternating Detection and Association,"Many query-based approaches for 3D Multi-Object Tracking (MOT) adopt the tracking-by-attention paradigm, utilizing track queries for identity-consistent detection and object queries for identity-agnostic track spawning. Tracking-by-attention, however, entangles detection and tracking queries in one embedding for both the detection and tracking task, which is sub-optimal. Other approaches resemble the tracking-by-detection paradigm, detecting objects using decoupled track and detection queries followed by a subsequent association. These methods, however, do not leverage synergies between the detection and association task. Combining the strengths of both paradigms, we introduce ADA-Track, a novel end-to-end framework for 3D MOT from multi-view cameras. We introduce a learnable data association module based on edge-augmented cross-attention, leveraging appearance and geometric features. Furthermore, we integrate this association module into the decoder layer of a DETR-based 3D detector, enabling simultaneous DETR-like query-to-image cross-attention for detection and query-to-query cross-attention for data association. By stacking these decoder layers, queries are refined for the detection and association task alternately, effectively harnessing the task dependencies. We evaluate our method on the nuScenes dataset and demonstrate the advantage of our approach compared to the two previous paradigms. Code is available at https://github.com/dsx0511/ADA-Track.",2024-05-14,2405.08909v1
Efficient Vision-Language Pre-training by Cluster Masking,"We propose a simple strategy for masking image patches during visual-language contrastive learning that improves the quality of the learned representations and the training speed. During each iteration of training, we randomly mask clusters of visually similar image patches, as measured by their raw pixel intensities. This provides an extra learning signal, beyond the contrastive training itself, since it forces a model to predict words for masked visual structures solely from context. It also speeds up training by reducing the amount of data used in each image. We evaluate the effectiveness of our model by pre-training on a number of benchmarks, finding that it outperforms other masking strategies, such as FLIP, on the quality of the learned representation.",2024-05-14,2405.08815v1
Ambiguous Annotations: When is a Pedestrian not a Pedestrian?,"Datasets labelled by human annotators are widely used in the training and testing of machine learning models. In recent years, researchers are increasingly paying attention to label quality. However, it is not always possible to objectively determine whether an assigned label is correct or not. The present work investigates this ambiguity in the annotation of autonomous driving datasets as an important dimension of data quality. Our experiments show that excluding highly ambiguous data from the training improves model performance of a state-of-the-art pedestrian detector in terms of LAMR, precision and F1 score, thereby saving training time and annotation costs. Furthermore, we demonstrate that, in order to safely remove ambiguous instances and ensure the retained representativeness of the training data, an understanding of the properties of the dataset and class under investigation is crucial.",2024-05-14,2405.08794v1
RDPN6D: Residual-based Dense Point-wise Network for 6Dof Object Pose Estimation Based on RGB-D Images,"In this work, we introduce a novel method for calculating the 6DoF pose of an object using a single RGB-D image. Unlike existing methods that either directly predict objects' poses or rely on sparse keypoints for pose recovery, our approach addresses this challenging task using dense correspondence, i.e., we regress the object coordinates for each visible pixel. Our method leverages existing object detection methods. We incorporate a re-projection mechanism to adjust the camera's intrinsic matrix to accommodate cropping in RGB-D images. Moreover, we transform the 3D object coordinates into a residual representation, which can effectively reduce the output space and yield superior performance. We conducted extensive experiments to validate the efficacy of our approach for 6D pose estimation. Our approach outperforms most previous methods, especially in occlusion scenarios, and demonstrates notable improvements over the state-of-the-art methods. Our code is available on https://github.com/AI-Application-and-Integration-Lab/RDPN6D.",2024-05-14,2405.08483v1
Rethinking Prior Information Generation with CLIP for Few-Shot Segmentation,"Few-shot segmentation remains challenging due to the limitations of its labeling information for unseen classes. Most previous approaches rely on extracting high-level feature maps from the frozen visual encoder to compute the pixel-wise similarity as a key prior guidance for the decoder. However, such a prior representation suffers from coarse granularity and poor generalization to new classes since these high-level feature maps have obvious category bias. In this work, we propose to replace the visual prior representation with the visual-text alignment capacity to capture more reliable guidance and enhance the model generalization. Specifically, we design two kinds of training-free prior information generation strategy that attempts to utilize the semantic alignment capability of the Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training model (CLIP) to locate the target class. Besides, to acquire more accurate prior guidance, we build a high-order relationship of attention maps and utilize it to refine the initial prior information. Experiments on both the PASCAL-5{i} and COCO-20{i} datasets show that our method obtains a clearly substantial improvement and reaches the new state-of-the-art performance.",2024-05-14,2405.08458v1
StraightPCF: Straight Point Cloud Filtering,"Point cloud filtering is a fundamental 3D vision task, which aims to remove noise while recovering the underlying clean surfaces. State-of-the-art methods remove noise by moving noisy points along stochastic trajectories to the clean surfaces. These methods often require regularization within the training objective and/or during post-processing, to ensure fidelity. In this paper, we introduce StraightPCF, a new deep learning based method for point cloud filtering. It works by moving noisy points along straight paths, thus reducing discretization errors while ensuring faster convergence to the clean surfaces. We model noisy patches as intermediate states between high noise patch variants and their clean counterparts, and design the VelocityModule to infer a constant flow velocity from the former to the latter. This constant flow leads to straight filtering trajectories. In addition, we introduce a DistanceModule that scales the straight trajectory using an estimated distance scalar to attain convergence near the clean surface. Our network is lightweight and only has $\sim530K$ parameters, being 17% of IterativePFN (a most recent point cloud filtering network). Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real-world data show our method achieves state-of-the-art results. Our method also demonstrates nice distributions of filtered points without the need for regularization. The implementation code can be found at: https://github.com/ddsediri/StraightPCF.",2024-05-14,2405.08322v1
