Title,Abstract,Date
Don't drop your samples! Coherence-aware training benefits Conditional diffusion,"Conditional diffusion models are powerful generative models that can leverage various types of conditional information, such as class labels, segmentation masks, or text captions. However, in many real-world scenarios, conditional information may be noisy or unreliable due to human annotation errors or weak alignment. In this paper, we propose the Coherence-Aware Diffusion (CAD), a novel method that integrates coherence in conditional information into diffusion models, allowing them to learn from noisy annotations without discarding data. We assume that each data point has an associated coherence score that reflects the quality of the conditional information. We then condition the diffusion model on both the conditional information and the coherence score. In this way, the model learns to ignore or discount the conditioning when the coherence is low. We show that CAD is theoretically sound and empirically effective on various conditional generation tasks. Moreover, we show that leveraging coherence generates realistic and diverse samples that respect conditional information better than models trained on cleaned datasets where samples with low coherence have been discarded.",2024-05-30
Can't make an Omelette without Breaking some Eggs: Plausible Action Anticipation using Large Video-Language Models,"We introduce PlausiVL, a large video-language model for anticipating action sequences that are plausible in the real-world. While significant efforts have been made towards anticipating future actions, prior approaches do not take into account the aspect of plausibility in an action sequence. To address this limitation, we explore the generative capability of a large video-language model in our work and further, develop the understanding of plausibility in an action sequence by introducing two objective functions, a counterfactual-based plausible action sequence learning loss and a long-horizon action repetition loss. We utilize temporal logical constraints as well as verb-noun action pair logical constraints to create implausible/counterfactual action sequences and use them to train the model with plausible action sequence learning loss. This loss helps the model to differentiate between plausible and not plausible action sequences and also helps the model to learn implicit temporal cues crucial for the task of action anticipation. The long-horizon action repetition loss puts a higher penalty on the actions that are more prone to repetition over a longer temporal window. With this penalization, the model is able to generate diverse, plausible action sequences. We evaluate our approach on two large-scale datasets, Ego4D and EPIC-Kitchens-100, and show improvements on the task of action anticipation.",2024-05-30
Open-Set Domain Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation,"Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) for semantic segmentation aims to transfer the pixel-wise knowledge from the labeled source domain to the unlabeled target domain. However, current UDA methods typically assume a shared label space between source and target, limiting their applicability in real-world scenarios where novel categories may emerge in the target domain. In this paper, we introduce Open-Set Domain Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation (OSDA-SS) for the first time, where the target domain includes unknown classes. We identify two major problems in the OSDA-SS scenario as follows: 1) the existing UDA methods struggle to predict the exact boundary of the unknown classes, and 2) they fail to accurately predict the shape of the unknown classes. To address these issues, we propose Boundary and Unknown Shape-Aware open-set domain adaptation, coined BUS. Our BUS can accurately discern the boundaries between known and unknown classes in a contrastive manner using a novel dilation-erosion-based contrastive loss. In addition, we propose OpenReMix, a new domain mixing augmentation method that guides our model to effectively learn domain and size-invariant features for improving the shape detection of the known and unknown classes. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our proposed BUS effectively detects unknown classes in the challenging OSDA-SS scenario compared to the previous methods by a large margin. The code is available at https://github.com/KHU-AGI/BUS.",2024-05-30
Puff-Net: Efficient Style Transfer with Pure Content and Style Feature Fusion Network,"Style transfer aims to render an image with the artistic features of a style image, while maintaining the original structure. Various methods have been put forward for this task, but some challenges still exist. For instance, it is difficult for CNN-based methods to handle global information and long-range dependencies between input images, for which transformer-based methods have been proposed. Although transformers can better model the relationship between content and style images, they require high-cost hardware and time-consuming inference. To address these issues, we design a novel transformer model that includes only the encoder, thus significantly reducing the computational cost. In addition, we also find that existing style transfer methods may lead to images under-stylied or missing content. In order to achieve better stylization, we design a content feature extractor and a style feature extractor, based on which pure content and style images can be fed to the transformer. Finally, we propose a novel network termed Puff-Net, i.e., pure content and style feature fusion network. Through qualitative and quantitative experiments, we demonstrate the advantages of our model compared to state-of-the-art ones in the literature.",2024-05-30
LED: A Large-scale Real-world Paired Dataset for Event Camera Denoising,"Event camera has significant advantages in capturing dynamic scene information while being prone to noise interference, particularly in challenging conditions like low threshold and low illumination. However, most existing research focuses on gentle situations, hindering event camera applications in realistic complex scenarios. To tackle this limitation and advance the field, we construct a new paired real-world event denoising dataset (LED), including 3K sequences with 18K seconds of high-resolution (1200*680) event streams and showing three notable distinctions compared to others: diverse noise levels and scenes, larger-scale with high-resolution, and high-quality GT. Specifically, it contains stepped parameters and varying illumination with diverse scenarios. Moreover, based on the property of noise events inconsistency and signal events consistency, we propose a novel effective denoising framework(DED) using homogeneous dual events to generate the GT with better separating noise from the raw. Furthermore, we design a bio-inspired baseline leveraging Leaky-Integrate-and-Fire (LIF) neurons with dynamic thresholds to realize accurate denoising. The experimental results demonstrate that the remarkable performance of the proposed approach on different datasets.The dataset and code are at https://github.com/Yee-Sing/led.",2024-05-30
FaceLift: Semi-supervised 3D Facial Landmark Localization,"3D facial landmark localization has proven to be of particular use for applications, such as face tracking, 3D face modeling, and image-based 3D face reconstruction. In the supervised learning case, such methods usually rely on 3D landmark datasets derived from 3DMM-based registration that often lack spatial definition alignment, as compared with that chosen by hand-labeled human consensus, e.g., how are eyebrow landmarks defined? This creates a gap between landmark datasets generated via high-quality 2D human labels and 3DMMs, and it ultimately limits their effectiveness. To address this issue, we introduce a novel semi-supervised learning approach that learns 3D landmarks by directly lifting (visible) hand-labeled 2D landmarks and ensures better definition alignment, without the need for 3D landmark datasets. To lift 2D landmarks to 3D, we leverage 3D-aware GANs for better multi-view consistency learning and in-the-wild multi-frame videos for robust cross-generalization. Empirical experiments demonstrate that our method not only achieves better definition alignment between 2D-3D landmarks but also outperforms other supervised learning 3D landmark localization methods on both 3DMM labeled and photogrammetric ground truth evaluation datasets. Project Page: https://davidcferman.github.io/FaceLift",2024-05-30
Programmable Motion Generation for Open-Set Motion Control Tasks,"Character animation in real-world scenarios necessitates a variety of constraints, such as trajectories, key-frames, interactions, etc. Existing methodologies typically treat single or a finite set of these constraint(s) as separate control tasks. They are often specialized, and the tasks they address are rarely extendable or customizable. We categorize these as solutions to the close-set motion control problem. In response to the complexity of practical motion control, we propose and attempt to solve the open-set motion control problem. This problem is characterized by an open and fully customizable set of motion control tasks. To address this, we introduce a new paradigm, programmable motion generation. In this paradigm, any given motion control task is broken down into a combination of atomic constraints. These constraints are then programmed into an error function that quantifies the degree to which a motion sequence adheres to them. We utilize a pre-trained motion generation model and optimize its latent code to minimize the error function of the generated motion. Consequently, the generated motion not only inherits the prior of the generative model but also satisfies the required constraints. Experiments show that we can generate high-quality motions when addressing a wide range of unseen tasks. These tasks encompass motion control by motion dynamics, geometric constraints, physical laws, interactions with scenes, objects or the character own body parts, etc. All of these are achieved in a unified approach, without the need for ad-hoc paired training data collection or specialized network designs. During the programming of novel tasks, we observed the emergence of new skills beyond those of the prior model. With the assistance of large language models, we also achieved automatic programming. We hope that this work will pave the way for the motion control of general AI agents.",2024-05-29
Resurrecting Old Classes with New Data for Exemplar-Free Continual Learning,"Continual learning methods are known to suffer from catastrophic forgetting, a phenomenon that is particularly hard to counter for methods that do not store exemplars of previous tasks. Therefore, to reduce potential drift in the feature extractor, existing exemplar-free methods are typically evaluated in settings where the first task is significantly larger than subsequent tasks. Their performance drops drastically in more challenging settings starting with a smaller first task. To address this problem of feature drift estimation for exemplar-free methods, we propose to adversarially perturb the current samples such that their embeddings are close to the old class prototypes in the old model embedding space. We then estimate the drift in the embedding space from the old to the new model using the perturbed images and compensate the prototypes accordingly. We exploit the fact that adversarial samples are transferable from the old to the new feature space in a continual learning setting. The generation of these images is simple and computationally cheap. We demonstrate in our experiments that the proposed approach better tracks the movement of prototypes in embedding space and outperforms existing methods on several standard continual learning benchmarks as well as on fine-grained datasets. Code is available at https://github.com/dipamgoswami/ADC.",2024-05-29
Supervised Contrastive Learning for Snapshot Spectral Imaging Face Anti-Spoofing,"This study reveals a cutting-edge re-balanced contrastive learning strategy aimed at strengthening face anti-spoofing capabilities within facial recognition systems, with a focus on countering the challenges posed by printed photos, and highly realistic silicone or latex masks. Leveraging the HySpeFAS dataset, which benefits from Snapshot Spectral Imaging technology to provide hyperspectral images, our approach harmonizes class-level contrastive learning with data resampling and an innovative real-face oriented reweighting technique. This method effectively mitigates dataset imbalances and reduces identity-related biases. Notably, our strategy achieved an unprecedented 0.0000\% Average Classification Error Rate (ACER) on the HySpeFAS dataset, ranking first at the Chalearn Snapshot Spectral Imaging Face Anti-spoofing Challenge on CVPR 2024.",2024-05-29
Evaluating Zero-Shot GPT-4V Performance on 3D Visual Question Answering Benchmarks,"As interest in ""reformulating"" the 3D Visual Question Answering (VQA) problem in the context of foundation models grows, it is imperative to assess how these new paradigms influence existing closed-vocabulary datasets. In this case study, we evaluate the zero-shot performance of foundational models (GPT-4 Vision and GPT-4) on well-established 3D VQA benchmarks, namely 3D-VQA and ScanQA. We provide an investigation to contextualize the performance of GPT-based agents relative to traditional modeling approaches. We find that GPT-based agents without any fine-tuning perform on par with the closed vocabulary approaches. Our findings corroborate recent results that ""blind"" models establish a surprisingly strong baseline in closed-vocabulary settings. We demonstrate that agents benefit significantly from scene-specific vocabulary via in-context textual grounding. By presenting a preliminary comparison with previous baselines, we hope to inform the community's ongoing efforts to refine multi-modal 3D benchmarks.",2024-05-29
Leveraging Predicate and Triplet Learning for Scene Graph Generation,"Scene Graph Generation (SGG) aims to identify entities and predict the relationship triplets \textit{\textless subject, predicate, object\textgreater } in visual scenes. Given the prevalence of large visual variations of subject-object pairs even in the same predicate, it can be quite challenging to model and refine predicate representations directly across such pairs, which is however a common strategy adopted by most existing SGG methods. We observe that visual variations within the identical triplet are relatively small and certain relation cues are shared in the same type of triplet, which can potentially facilitate the relation learning in SGG. Moreover, for the long-tail problem widely studied in SGG task, it is also crucial to deal with the limited types and quantity of triplets in tail predicates. Accordingly, in this paper, we propose a Dual-granularity Relation Modeling (DRM) network to leverage fine-grained triplet cues besides the coarse-grained predicate ones. DRM utilizes contexts and semantics of predicate and triplet with Dual-granularity Constraints, generating compact and balanced representations from two perspectives to facilitate relation recognition. Furthermore, a Dual-granularity Knowledge Transfer (DKT) strategy is introduced to transfer variation from head predicates/triplets to tail ones, aiming to enrich the pattern diversity of tail classes to alleviate the long-tail problem. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, which establishes new state-of-the-art performance on Visual Genome, Open Image, and GQA datasets. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/jkli1998/DRM}",2024-06-04
Exploring Real World Map Change Generalization of Prior-Informed HD Map Prediction Models,"Building and maintaining High-Definition (HD) maps represents a large barrier to autonomous vehicle deployment. This, along with advances in modern online map detection models, has sparked renewed interest in the online mapping problem. However, effectively predicting online maps at a high enough quality to enable safe, driverless deployments remains a significant challenge. Recent work on these models proposes training robust online mapping systems using low quality map priors with synthetic perturbations in an attempt to simulate out-of-date HD map priors. In this paper, we investigate how models trained on these synthetically perturbed map priors generalize to performance on deployment-scale, real world map changes. We present a large-scale experimental study to determine which synthetic perturbations are most useful in generalizing to real world HD map changes, evaluated using multiple years of real-world autonomous driving data. We show there is still a substantial sim2real gap between synthetic prior perturbations and observed real-world changes, which limits the utility of current prior-informed HD map prediction models.",2024-06-04
Plug-and-Play Diffusion Distillation,"Diffusion models have shown tremendous results in image generation. However, due to the iterative nature of the diffusion process and its reliance on classifier-free guidance, inference times are slow. In this paper, we propose a new distillation approach for guided diffusion models in which an external lightweight guide model is trained while the original text-to-image model remains frozen. We show that our method reduces the inference computation of classifier-free guided latent-space diffusion models by almost half, and only requires 1\% trainable parameters of the base model. Furthermore, once trained, our guide model can be applied to various fine-tuned, domain-specific versions of the base diffusion model without the need for additional training: this ""plug-and-play"" functionality drastically improves inference computation while maintaining the visual fidelity of generated images. Empirically, we show that our approach is able to produce visually appealing results and achieve a comparable FID score to the teacher with as few as 8 to 16 steps.",2024-06-04
L-MAGIC: Language Model Assisted Generation of Images with Coherence,"In the current era of generative AI breakthroughs, generating panoramic scenes from a single input image remains a key challenge. Most existing methods use diffusion-based iterative or simultaneous multi-view inpainting. However, the lack of global scene layout priors leads to subpar outputs with duplicated objects (e.g., multiple beds in a bedroom) or requires time-consuming human text inputs for each view. We propose L-MAGIC, a novel method leveraging large language models for guidance while diffusing multiple coherent views of 360 degree panoramic scenes. L-MAGIC harnesses pre-trained diffusion and language models without fine-tuning, ensuring zero-shot performance. The output quality is further enhanced by super-resolution and multi-view fusion techniques. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the resulting panoramic scenes feature better scene layouts and perspective view rendering quality compared to related works, with >70% preference in human evaluations. Combined with conditional diffusion models, L-MAGIC can accept various input modalities, including but not limited to text, depth maps, sketches, and colored scripts. Applying depth estimation further enables 3D point cloud generation and dynamic scene exploration with fluid camera motion. Code is available at https://github.com/IntelLabs/MMPano. The video presentation is available at https://youtu.be/XDMNEzH4-Ec?list=PLG9Zyvu7iBa0-a7ccNLO8LjcVRAoMn57s.",2024-06-03
Finding Lottery Tickets in Vision Models via Data-driven Spectral Foresight Pruning,"Recent advances in neural network pruning have shown how it is possible to reduce the computational costs and memory demands of deep learning models before training. We focus on this framework and propose a new pruning at initialization algorithm that leverages the Neural Tangent Kernel (NTK) theory to align the training dynamics of the sparse network with that of the dense one. Specifically, we show how the usually neglected data-dependent component in the NTK's spectrum can be taken into account by providing an analytical upper bound to the NTK's trace obtained by decomposing neural networks into individual paths. This leads to our Path eXclusion (PX), a foresight pruning method designed to preserve the parameters that mostly influence the NTK's trace. PX is able to find lottery tickets (i.e. good paths) even at high sparsity levels and largely reduces the need for additional training. When applied to pre-trained models it extracts subnetworks directly usable for several downstream tasks, resulting in performance comparable to those of the dense counterpart but with substantial cost and computational savings. Code available at: https://github.com/iurada/px-ntk-pruning",2024-06-03
Towards Practical Single-shot Motion Synthesis,"Despite the recent advances in the so-called ""cold start"" generation from text prompts, their needs in data and computing resources, as well as the ambiguities around intellectual property and privacy concerns pose certain counterarguments for their utility. An interesting and relatively unexplored alternative has been the introduction of unconditional synthesis from a single sample, which has led to interesting generative applications. In this paper we focus on single-shot motion generation and more specifically on accelerating the training time of a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN). In particular, we tackle the challenge of GAN's equilibrium collapse when using mini-batch training by carefully annealing the weights of the loss functions that prevent mode collapse. Additionally, we perform statistical analysis in the generator and discriminator models to identify correlations between training stages and enable transfer learning. Our improved GAN achieves competitive quality and diversity on the Mixamo benchmark when compared to the original GAN architecture and a single-shot diffusion model, while being up to x6.8 faster in training time from the former and x1.75 from the latter. Finally, we demonstrate the ability of our improved GAN to mix and compose motion with a single forward pass. Project page available at https://moverseai.github.io/single-shot.",2024-06-03
Object Aware Egocentric Online Action Detection,"Advancements in egocentric video datasets like Ego4D, EPIC-Kitchens, and Ego-Exo4D have enriched the study of first-person human interactions, which is crucial for applications in augmented reality and assisted living. Despite these advancements, current Online Action Detection methods, which efficiently detect actions in streaming videos, are predominantly designed for exocentric views and thus fail to capitalize on the unique perspectives inherent to egocentric videos. To address this gap, we introduce an Object-Aware Module that integrates egocentric-specific priors into existing OAD frameworks, enhancing first-person footage interpretation. Utilizing object-specific details and temporal dynamics, our module improves scene understanding in detecting actions. Validated extensively on the Epic-Kitchens 100 dataset, our work can be seamlessly integrated into existing models with minimal overhead and bring consistent performance enhancements, marking an important step forward in adapting action detection systems to egocentric video analysis.",2024-06-03
T2LM: Long-Term 3D Human Motion Generation from Multiple Sentences,"In this paper, we address the challenging problem of long-term 3D human motion generation. Specifically, we aim to generate a long sequence of smoothly connected actions from a stream of multiple sentences (i.e., paragraph). Previous long-term motion generating approaches were mostly based on recurrent methods, using previously generated motion chunks as input for the next step. However, this approach has two drawbacks: 1) it relies on sequential datasets, which are expensive; 2) these methods yield unrealistic gaps between motions generated at each step. To address these issues, we introduce simple yet effective T2LM, a continuous long-term generation framework that can be trained without sequential data. T2LM comprises two components: a 1D-convolutional VQVAE, trained to compress motion to sequences of latent vectors, and a Transformer-based Text Encoder that predicts a latent sequence given an input text. At inference, a sequence of sentences is translated into a continuous stream of latent vectors. This is then decoded into a motion by the VQVAE decoder; the use of 1D convolutions with a local temporal receptive field avoids temporal inconsistencies between training and generated sequences. This simple constraint on the VQ-VAE allows it to be trained with short sequences only and produces smoother transitions. T2LM outperforms prior long-term generation models while overcoming the constraint of requiring sequential data; it is also competitive with SOTA single-action generation models.",2024-06-02
Semi-supervised Video Semantic Segmentation Using Unreliable Pseudo Labels for PVUW2024,"Pixel-level Scene Understanding is one of the fundamental problems in computer vision, which aims at recognizing object classes, masks and semantics of each pixel in the given image. Compared with image scene parsing, video scene parsing introduces temporal information, which can effectively improve the consistency and accuracy of prediction,because the real-world is actually video-based rather than a static state. In this paper, we adopt semi-supervised video semantic segmentation method based on unreliable pseudo labels. Then, We ensemble the teacher network model with the student network model to generate pseudo labels and retrain the student network. Our method achieves the mIoU scores of 63.71% and 67.83% on development test and final test respectively. Finally, we obtain the 1st place in the Video Scene Parsing in the Wild Challenge at CVPR 2024.",2024-06-02
FlowIE: Efficient Image Enhancement via Rectified Flow,"Image enhancement holds extensive applications in real-world scenarios due to complex environments and limitations of imaging devices. Conventional methods are often constrained by their tailored models, resulting in diminished robustness when confronted with challenging degradation conditions. In response, we propose FlowIE, a simple yet highly effective flow-based image enhancement framework that estimates straight-line paths from an elementary distribution to high-quality images. Unlike previous diffusion-based methods that suffer from long-time inference, FlowIE constructs a linear many-to-one transport mapping via conditioned rectified flow. The rectification straightens the trajectories of probability transfer, accelerating inference by an order of magnitude. This design enables our FlowIE to fully exploit rich knowledge in the pre-trained diffusion model, rendering it well-suited for various real-world applications. Moreover, we devise a faster inference algorithm, inspired by Lagrange's Mean Value Theorem, harnessing midpoint tangent direction to optimize path estimation, ultimately yielding visually superior results. Thanks to these designs, our FlowIE adeptly manages a diverse range of enhancement tasks within a concise sequence of fewer than 5 steps. Our contributions are rigorously validated through comprehensive experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets, unveiling the compelling efficacy and efficiency of our proposed FlowIE. Code is available at https://github.com/EternalEvan/FlowIE.",2024-06-01
2nd Place Solution for PVUW Challenge 2024: Video Panoptic Segmentation,"Video Panoptic Segmentation (VPS) is a challenging task that is extends from image panoptic segmentation.VPS aims to simultaneously classify, track, segment all objects in a video, including both things and stuff. Due to its wide application in many downstream tasks such as video understanding, video editing, and autonomous driving. In order to deal with the task of video panoptic segmentation in the wild, we propose a robust integrated video panoptic segmentation solution. We use DVIS++ framework as our baseline to generate the initial masks. Then,we add an additional image semantic segmentation model to further improve the performance of semantic classes.Finally, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance with a VPQ score of 56.36 and 57.12 in the development and test phases, respectively, and ultimately ranked 2nd in the VPS track of the PVUW Challenge at CVPR2024.",2024-06-01
You Only Need Less Attention at Each Stage in Vision Transformers,"The advent of Vision Transformers (ViTs) marks a substantial paradigm shift in the realm of computer vision. ViTs capture the global information of images through self-attention modules, which perform dot product computations among patchified image tokens. While self-attention modules empower ViTs to capture long-range dependencies, the computational complexity grows quadratically with the number of tokens, which is a major hindrance to the practical application of ViTs. Moreover, the self-attention mechanism in deep ViTs is also susceptible to the attention saturation issue. Accordingly, we argue against the necessity of computing the attention scores in every layer, and we propose the Less-Attention Vision Transformer (LaViT), which computes only a few attention operations at each stage and calculates the subsequent feature alignments in other layers via attention transformations that leverage the previously calculated attention scores. This novel approach can mitigate two primary issues plaguing traditional self-attention modules: the heavy computational burden and attention saturation. Our proposed architecture offers superior efficiency and ease of implementation, merely requiring matrix multiplications that are highly optimized in contemporary deep learning frameworks. Moreover, our architecture demonstrates exceptional performance across various vision tasks including classification, detection and segmentation.",2024-06-01
HENASY: Learning to Assemble Scene-Entities for Egocentric Video-Language Model,"Video-Language Models (VLMs), pre-trained on large-scale video-caption datasets, are now standard for robust visual-language representation and downstream tasks. However, their reliance on global contrastive alignment limits their ability to capture fine-grained interactions between visual and textual elements. To address these challenges, we introduce HENASY (Hierarchical ENtities ASsemblY), a novel framework designed for egocentric video analysis that enhances the granularity of video content representations. HENASY employs a compositional approach using an enhanced slot-attention and grouping mechanisms for videos, assembling dynamic entities from video patches. It integrates a local entity encoder for dynamic modeling, a global encoder for broader contextual understanding, and an entity-aware decoder for late-stage fusion, enabling effective video scene dynamics modeling and granular-level alignment between visual entities and text. By incorporating innovative contrastive losses, HENASY significantly improves entity and activity recognition, delivering superior performance on benchmarks such as Ego4D and EpicKitchen, and setting new standards in both zero-shot and extensive video understanding tasks. Our results confirm groundbreaking capabilities of HENASY and establish it as a significant advancement in video-language multimodal research.",2024-06-01
SNED: Superposition Network Architecture Search for Efficient Video Diffusion Model,"While AI-generated content has garnered significant attention, achieving photo-realistic video synthesis remains a formidable challenge. Despite the promising advances in diffusion models for video generation quality, the complex model architecture and substantial computational demands for both training and inference create a significant gap between these models and real-world applications. This paper presents SNED, a superposition network architecture search method for efficient video diffusion model. Our method employs a supernet training paradigm that targets various model cost and resolution options using a weight-sharing method. Moreover, we propose the supernet training sampling warm-up for fast training optimization. To showcase the flexibility of our method, we conduct experiments involving both pixel-space and latent-space video diffusion models. The results demonstrate that our framework consistently produces comparable results across different model options with high efficiency. According to the experiment for the pixel-space video diffusion model, we can achieve consistent video generation results simultaneously across 64 x 64 to 256 x 256 resolutions with a large range of model sizes from 640M to 1.6B number of parameters for pixel-space video diffusion models.",2024-05-31
Rethinking Open-World Semi-Supervised Learning: Distribution Mismatch and Inductive Inference,"Open-world semi-supervised learning (OWSSL) extends conventional semi-supervised learning to open-world scenarios by taking account of novel categories in unlabeled datasets. Despite the recent advancements in OWSSL, the success often relies on the assumptions that 1) labeled and unlabeled datasets share the same balanced class prior distribution, which does not generally hold in real-world applications, and 2) unlabeled training datasets are utilized for evaluation, where such transductive inference might not adequately address challenges in the wild. In this paper, we aim to generalize OWSSL by addressing them. Our work suggests that practical OWSSL may require different training settings, evaluation methods, and learning strategies compared to those prevalent in the existing literature.",2024-05-31
Extreme Point Supervised Instance Segmentation,"This paper introduces a novel approach to learning instance segmentation using extreme points, i.e., the topmost, leftmost, bottommost, and rightmost points, of each object. These points are readily available in the modern bounding box annotation process while offering strong clues for precise segmentation, and thus allows to improve performance at the same annotation cost with box-supervised methods. Our work considers extreme points as a part of the true instance mask and propagates them to identify potential foreground and background points, which are all together used for training a pseudo label generator. Then pseudo labels given by the generator are in turn used for supervised learning of our final model. On three public benchmarks, our method significantly outperforms existing box-supervised methods, further narrowing the gap with its fully supervised counterpart. In particular, our model generates high-quality masks when a target object is separated into multiple parts, where previous box-supervised methods often fail.",2024-05-31
Is Synthetic Data all We Need? Benchmarking the Robustness of Models Trained with Synthetic Images,"A long-standing challenge in developing machine learning approaches has been the lack of high-quality labeled data. Recently, models trained with purely synthetic data, here termed synthetic clones, generated using large-scale pre-trained diffusion models have shown promising results in overcoming this annotation bottleneck. As these synthetic clone models progress, they are likely to be deployed in challenging real-world settings, yet their suitability remains understudied. Our work addresses this gap by providing the first benchmark for three classes of synthetic clone models, namely supervised, self-supervised, and multi-modal ones, across a range of robustness measures. We show that existing synthetic self-supervised and multi-modal clones are comparable to or outperform state-of-the-art real-image baselines for a range of robustness metrics - shape bias, background bias, calibration, etc. However, we also find that synthetic clones are much more susceptible to adversarial and real-world noise than models trained with real data. To address this, we find that combining both real and synthetic data further increases the robustness, and that the choice of prompt used for generating synthetic images plays an important part in the robustness of synthetic clones.",2024-05-30
LLMGeo: Benchmarking Large Language Models on Image Geolocation In-the-wild,"Image geolocation is a critical task in various image-understanding applications. However, existing methods often fail when analyzing challenging, in-the-wild images. Inspired by the exceptional background knowledge of multimodal language models, we systematically evaluate their geolocation capabilities using a novel image dataset and a comprehensive evaluation framework. We first collect images from various countries via Google Street View. Then, we conduct training-free and training-based evaluations on closed-source and open-source multi-modal language models. we conduct both training-free and training-based evaluations on closed-source and open-source multimodal language models. Our findings indicate that closed-source models demonstrate superior geolocation abilities, while open-source models can achieve comparable performance through fine-tuning.",2024-05-30
